Money spent on brain is never spent in vain.
A man of words and not of deeds is like a garden full of weeds.
An empty bag cannot stand upright.
In every beginning think of the end.
A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
Laughter is the shortest distance between two people.
Better be alone than in bad company.
Better the devil you know (than the one you don't).
There is a time to speak and a time to be silent.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Make not the sauce till you have caught the fish.
An open door may tempt a saint.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody.
A trouble shared is a trouble halved.
A still tongue makes a wise head.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
He that will steal an egg will steal an ox.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
All ask if a man be rich, no one if he be good.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
He that cannot obey cannot command.
Bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Blood is thicker than water.
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
A watched pot never boils.
You cannot make an omelette without breaking eggs.
An unfortunate man would be drowned in a teacup.
Don't cross a bridge until you come to it.
A friend to all is a friend to none.
Better late than never.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
And he repents in thorns that sleeps in beds of roses.
If you want a thing well done, do it yourself. (1616)
Faith will move mountains.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
A poor workman always blames his tools.
A man is as old as he feels himself to be.
Children and fools must not play with edged tools.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
It's a good horse that never stumbles.
Don't burn your bridges behind you.
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
Good things come to those who wait.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
Hell has no fury like a woman scorned.
All is fair in love and war.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
Don't change horses in midstream.
No man is an island.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
Actions speak louder than words.
Never tell your enemy that your foot aches.
A rolling stone is not covered with moss.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
All are not merry that dance lightly.
All that glisters is not gold.
A woman's work is never done.
Boys will be boys.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
History repeats itself.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
First deserve and then desire.
Give credit where credit is due.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
Where there's a will there's a way.
Home is where the heart is.
Ain't over till the fat lady sings.
Love your neighbor, yet pull not down your hedge.
Everything comes to him who waits.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
One volunteer is worth two pressed men.
Better be safe than sorry.
A lie can be halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on.
A stich in time saves nine.
Better never to begin than never to make an end.
Everything's eventual.
A person is known by the company he keeps.
A rolling stone is not covered with moss.
Two heads are better than one.
Like father, like son.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the devil.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
No man is indispensable.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
Practice makes perfect.
Hope for the best, expect the worst.
Business is business.
Money is the root of all evil.
United we stand, divided we fall.
It is a long lane that has no turning.
Misery loves company.
All things change and we with them.
Talk of the devil and he's sure to appear.
A new broom sweeps clean.
Misery loves company.
Haste makes waste.
A word spoken is past recalling.
All good things come to an end.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
Manners maketh the man.
He begins to die that quits his desires.
A cat may look at a king.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
Beggars can't be choosers.
Doubt is the beginning not the end of wisdom.
Good fences make good neighbours.
All roads lead to Rome.
There's no place like home.
To kill two birds with one stone.
Faint heart ne'er won fair lady.
When in Rome do as the Romans do.
Love is blind.
Money makes the world go round.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
All's well that ends well.
Prevention is better than cure.
There are no small parts, only small actors.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
After a typhoon there are pears to gather up.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
A sound mind in a sound body.
All temptations are found either in hope or fear.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Big boast, small roast.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it comes home broken at last.
Like cures like.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.
Absence sharpens love, presence strengthens it.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
An empty barrel makes the most noise.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
At the end of the game the king and the pawn go into the same bag.
Always sample a maidens charms before the wedding.
Authority shows the man.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
He who pays the piper calls the tune.
A man without reason is a beast in season.
A bellyful is one of meat, drink, or sorrow.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A miss is as good as a mile.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A smooth sea never made a skillful mariner.
A trapped cat becomes a lion.
Ale in, wit out.
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
An empty belly hears nobody.
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.
An old wrinkle never wears out.
An oven and mill are nurseries of news.
Be careful what you wish for, you might just get it.
Beer before wine, you'll feel fine. Wine before beer, you'll feel queer.
Better a finger off than one wagging.
Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.
It's better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
Blest is the bride the sun shines on.
A good archer is not known by his arrows, but his aim.
A rich man's joke is not always funny.
Bashfulness is an enemy to poverty.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.
It's never too late to mend.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
All cats are grey in the dark.
East or West, home is best.
Life is short and time is swift.
The exception proves the rule.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
Once bitten, twice shy.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
Advice when most needed is least heeded.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
There is no time like the present.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Look before you leap.
Keep a thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Cold hands warm heart.
Comparisons are odorous.
Discretion is the better part of valour.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Every man has his price.
Forewarned is fore armed.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
If you can't be good, be careful.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Pride comes before a fall.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
What goes around comes around.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. (1639)
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you.
First come, first served.
The first step to health is to know that we are sick.
First things first.
There's no fool like an old fool.
He who hesitates is lost.
If you're in a hole, stop digging.
The more the merrier.
No man can serve two masters.
You get what you pay for.
If you want peace, prepare for war.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
As you sow, so you reap.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
Many hands make light work.
Best things in life are free.
The belly has no ears.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Good wine needs no bush.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
If you can't beat em, join em.
If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all.
It's the early bird that gets the worm.
It takes all sorts to make a world.
Life begins at forty.
Look after the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves.
Many things are lost for want of asking.
Mind your p's and q's.
Money makes the mare go.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
No news is good news.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
That which does not kill you, makes you stronger.
Think before you speak.
Time flies when you're having fun.
Facts are stubborn things.
A man may woo where he will, but he will wed where his luck lies.
A mother's love never ages.
A bad shearer never had a good sickle.
A good paymaster never wants workmen.
A wise man is a great wonder.
Beauty is eloquent even when silent.
Who comes uncalled, sits unserved.
Better untaught than ill taught.
Burning the candle at both ends.
By continually striving for the best, one may waste good opportunities.
When it thunders in March, it brings sorrow.
Where coin is not common, provisions can be scant.
Command your man, and do it yourself.
Do on the hill as you would do in the hall.
Don't eat the calf in the cow's belly.
Truth often hides in an ugly pool.
Truth will come to light.
There is a remedy for everything, could men find it.
They that are bound must obey.
Thinking is very far from knowing.
Those far, far away are seldom seen for what they really are.
He that brings good news, knocks hard.
He that lives well is learned enough.
He that makes a good war, makes a good peace.
He that nothing questions, nothing learns.
The customer is always right.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
The greatest step is that out of doors.
He that would be old long, must be old betimes.
The absent are always in the wrong.
Ill comes often on the back of worse.
Repentance is good, but innocence is better.
Pleasures shorten tedious nights.
Keep good men company, and you shall be of the number.
Law is a lickpenny.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Literature is a good staff but a bad crutch.
Love is as strong as death.
Never lend that thing you most need.
A cold April the barn will fill.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
A dog is a man's best friend.
A fish follows the bait.
Bad penny always turns up.
A big tree attracts the woodsman's ax.
A black hen lays a white egg.
A black plum is as sweet as a white.
A full cup must be carried steadily.
A good man in an evil society seems the greatest villain of all.
A goose quill is more dangerous than a lion's claw.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
A joyful evening may follow a sorrowful morning.
A penny saved is very grateful.
With one child you may walk; with two you may ride; when you have three, at home you must bide.
A proverb is the child of experience.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
A small family is soon provided for.
When your only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.
Where every man is master the world goes to wreck.
Where god builds a church, the devil will build a chapel.
Whiskey on beer, never fear. Beer on whiskey, mighty risky.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
All for one and one for all.
An illiterate king is a crowned ass.
To talk without thinking is to shoot without aiming.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
Ask no questions and hear no lies.
Be not deceived with the first appearance of things, for show is not substance.
Better bad than without.
There is no good accord where every man would be a lord.
Better face a danger once than be always in fear.
Better to be envied than pitied.
Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Better wed over the mixen than over the moor.
Beware of a man of one book.
There are too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
There is but one good mother-in-law and she is dead.
There is no flying from fate.
Blind is the bookless man.
Blood will out.
Bread is the staff of life, but beer's life itself.
Business first, pleasure after.
The start of a journey should never be mistaken for success.
Buying and selling is but winning and losing.
Cats hide their claws.
Chance favors the prepared mind.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
Cobbler, stick to thy last.
Cowards die many times, but a brave man only dies once.
The last benefit is most remembered.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
The mob has many heads, but no brains. (1732)
Danger and delight grow on one stalk.
Do not halloo until you are out of the wood.
The early bird catches the worm.
The cure is worse than the disease.
Don't mend what ain't broken.
The anger is not warrantable that has seen two suns.
Easy come easy go.
Every bean hath its black.
Every dog hath its day.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Everyone must row with the oars they have.
Everyone puts his fault on the times.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
God cures and the physician takes the fee.
Good company on the road is the shortest cut.
Good eating deserves good drinking.
Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.
One does harm, and another bears the blame.
Old habits die hard.
He that cannot beat the horse beats the saddle.
He that has no fools, knaves, or beggars in his family was begot by a flash of lightning.
He that knows thee will never buy thee.
He that lives in a glass house must not throw stones.
He that will have a cake out of the wheat must tarry the grinding.
Never judge the book by it's cover.
He who sups with the devil has need of a long spoon.
If the cap fits, wear it.
If you swear you will catch no fish.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
It is better to begin in the evening than not at all.
Judge not, lest ye be judged.
Just do it.
It's no use crying over spilt milk.
It takes two to lie, one to lie and one to listen.
It's an ill wind that blows no good.
There is no fool than an old fool.
When children stand quiet, they have done some ill.
With great learning, a horse, and money, you may travel the world.
A shady lane breeds mud.
The show must go on.
Give the devil his due.
Keep counsel of thyself first.
Put not thy hand between the bark and the tree.
The only stupid question is the one that is not asked.
The Spaniard is a bad servant but a worse master.
Without danger we cannot get beyond danger.
There is better fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
There's always a calm before a storm.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
The strong man and the waterfall channel their own path.
Turn the cake in the pan.
The secret of success is constancy of purpose.
To each his own.
Accusing the times is but excusing ourselves.
There is no benefit that sticks to the fingers.
Understand is better than stare.
Sin is the root of much sorrow.
There is no better manure than the farmer's foot.
Unprofitable is a fever of the world.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at the present.
Knock on wood.
An enterprizing foole needs little wit.
One funeral makes many.
The italians are wise before the deed; the germans in the deed; the french after the deed.
The world still he keeps at his staff's end that needs not to borrow and never will lend.
Well goes the case when wisdom counsels.
When a snake gets warm on ice, then a German will wish well to a Czech.
Words are but wind, but blows unkind.
Truth comes back where she has once visited.
He that bulls the cow must keep the calf.
A leap year is never a good sheep year.
Kisses that are easily obtained are easily forgotten.
Give neither advice nor salt, until you are asked for it.
The afterthought is good for nought, except it be to catch blind horses with.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
Take heed you find not what you do not seek.
Nothing enters into a close hand.
It is no time to stoop when the head is off.
It is good to have some friends both in heaven and hell. (1640)
Charity bread has hard crusts.
A fool will laugh when he is drowning.
A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
Children suck the mother when they are young and the father when they are old.
Chains of gold are stronger than chains of iron.
Age and wedlock bring a man to his nightcap.
Kindness brings happiness.
Little by little and bit by bit.
Better to pay and have little than have much and be in debt.
A surgeon experiments on the heads of orphans.
Better to say nothing, than to say something not to the purpose.
Eat leeks in march, garlic in may, all the rest of the year the doctors may play.
Although shrimps may dance around, they do not leave the river.
Close only counts in horseshoes and hand-grenades.
Debts remain from day to day.
Don't cross your bridges before you come to them.
Better wit than wealth.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
A good payer will not object to leaving a deposit.
A trodden path bears no grass.
A drunken man is always dry.
Old be, or young die.
Just go with it.
Marry your like.
Law governs man, and reason the law.
If a man deceive me once, shame on him; but if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
If you yourself can do it, attend no other's help or hand.
Keep no more cats than catch mice.
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone.
A man may die old at thirty and young at eighty.
A man may say too much, even upon the best subjects.
Beauty may open doors but only virtue enters.
Breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dine like a pauper.
A child's service is little, yet he is no little fool that despises it.
A snow year, a rich year.
It is good to have a hatch before the door.
Laugh till you cry, sorrow till you die.
Fortune is weary to carry one and the same man always.
He that gapes until he be fed, well may he gape till he be dead.
A pound of care will not pay an ounce of debt.
All flowers are not in one garland.
A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft.
Beauty and folly go often in company.
He that woos a widow must woo her day and night.
Heresy is the school of pride.
How can the foal amble if the horse and mare trot?
He that walketh with the virtuous is one of them.
Every rule has its exception.
A bully is always a coward.
A candle lights others and consumes itself.
A cast is not a catch.
A change is as good as a rest.
A cheerful wife is a joy of life.
A creaking cart goes long on the wheels.
A degenerate nobleman is like a turnip. There is nothing good of him but that which is underground.
A dimple in the chin, your living comes in; a dimple in the cheek, your living to seek.
A fair booty makes a fair thief.
A fair death honors the whole life.
A fair wife and a frontier castle breed quarrels.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
A fox smells its own stink first.
A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home.
A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor.
A hero is a man who is afraid to run away.
A house is a fine house when good folks are within.
A house well-furnished makes a woman wise.
A leopard cannot change its spots.
A lie has no legs, but a scandal has wings.
A little Learning is a dangerous thing.
A little wind kindles, much puts out the fire.
A man among children will long be a child; a child among men will soon be a man.
A man can't be hanged for his thoughts.
A man is as old as he feels, a woman as old as she looks.
A man is known to be mortal by two things, sleep and lust.
A man that will fight will find a cudgel in every hedge.
A man without a wife is but half a man.
A man without religion is a horse without a bridle.
A merry heart goes all the way.
A mother never thinks her baby is ugly.
A poor man's debt makes a great noise.
A pot of milk is ruined by a drop of poison.
A sin confessed is half forgiven.
A straight stick looks crooked in the water.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
A vain belief, unprofitable.
A worthy woman is the crown of her husband.
Absence is a shrew.
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
After a storm comes a calm.
Age and wedlock tame man and beast.
All clever men are birds of prey.
All covet, all lose.
All frills and no knickers.
All happiness is in the mind.
All hat and no cattle.
All is fish that comes to the net.
All of you that intend to ring, you undertake a dangerous thing.
All weapons of war cannot arm fear.
All work and no play makes Jack filthy rich.
Almsgiving never impoverished, stealing never enriched, and prosperity never made wise.
Always to court and never to wed is the happiest life that ever was led.
Ambition makes people diligent.
An abundance of money ruins youth.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
An Englishman's house (home) is his castle.
An hour may destroy what an age was building.
An old man is a bed full of bones.
Anger is often more hurtful than the injury that caused it.
Another man's poison is not necessarily yours.
April showers bring May flowers.
As a man lives, so shall he die.
As love thinks no evil, so envy speaks no good.
Ask and you shall receive.
Ask God for what man can give, and you may get it.
Attack is the best form of defence.
Bad news travels fast.
Beauty and honesty seldom agree.
Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit.
Beer before liquor, you'll never be sicker, but liquor before beer and you're in the clear.
Better a little chiding than a good deal of heartache.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Blind men should not judge of colours.
Brain is better than brawn.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
But an unwatched kettle over boils.
An inch of gold will not buy an inch of time.
Heresy may be easier kept out than shook off.
He that marries ere he be wise, will die ere he thrive.
He that enquires all opinions, comes ill speed.
Old saws speak truth.
He that will be rich before night, may be hanged before noon.
He that cannot do better, must be a monk.
He must have leave to speak who cannot hold his tongue.
He is an ill husband who is not missed.
Lead a pig to the Rhine, it remains a pig.
Let every sheep hang by his own shank.
With patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Life's not all beer and skittles.
With customs we live well, but laws undo us.
Never be boastful; someone may pass who knew you as a child.
Tell not all you know, all you have, or all you can do.
That sick man is not to be pitied who has his cure in his sleeve.
Take heed is a fair thing.
Poverty is an enemy to good manners.
Poor men go to heaven as soon as rich.
Poison is poison though it comes in a golden cup.
Plenty breeds pride.
Like counsellor, like counsel.
It is a great point of wisdom to find out one's own folly.
It is a sorry flock where the ewe bears the bell.
Wrath often consumes what goodness husbands.
Work for nought makes folks dead lazy.
Words and feathers the wind carries away.
It is hard to sail over the sea in an egg-shell.
It is height makes Grantham steeple stand awry.
Women's counsel is cold.
The descent to hell is easy.
The old should not be overfed.
The healthful man can give counsel to the sick.
The joy of the heart makes the face fair.
Delays are not denials.
Long visits bring short compliments.
Misfortunes hasten age.
Seek and ye shall find.
They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow.
Put new wine into old bottles..
Meat is much, but manners is better.
Meddle not with another man's matter.
Men are not angels.
Riches take away more pleasures than they give.
Today is the scholar of yesterday.
The best payment is on the peck bottom.
The best remedy against an ill man, is much ground between.
Old age is a hospital that takes in all diseases.
Yourself first, others afterward.
An army of stags led by a lion would be more formidable than one of lions led by a stag.
Bob's your uncle.
Blue are the faraway hills.
Hope is grief's best music.
Keep something for the sore foot.
When war begins, then hell opens.
Kill not the goose that laid the golden egg.
Laziness goes so slowly that poverty overtakes it.
The ant had wings to her hurt.
Truth has always a sure bottom.
Truth has a scratched face.
Truth needs not the ornament of many words.
There is no blindness like ignorance.
'tis money that begets money.
If words could only speak, they'd mean even less.
You can't get blood out of a turnip.
If you were born to be shot, you'll never be hung.
Kissing goes by favor.
Old sheep shouldn't dress in lamb's fashion.
Don't use your hairdryer in the shower, you prat.
He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
Don't do all you can, spend all you have, believe all you hear, or tell all you know.
Life's a bleach and then you dye.
If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.
Clean as God's fingertips.
Common sense ain't common.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
No pains, no gains.
Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.
Despair gives courage to a coward.
There is no accounting for tastes.
Every ass loves to hear himself bray.
It never rains but it pours.
If one sheep leaps over the ditch, all the rest will follow.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
Tomorrow is another day.
Live and let live.
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
As the old cock crows, so does the young.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Не that seeks trouble never misses.
It is easy to be wise after the event.
Better to ask the way than to go astray.
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
Love laughs at locksmiths.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
There is no smoke without fire.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Never write what you dare not sign.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
It is an equal failing to trust everybody and to trust nobody.
One swallow does not make a summer.
First impressions are most lasting.
The last straw breaks the camel's back.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Do as you would be done by.
Scratch my back and I will scratch yours.
Hard words break no bones.
The cobbler should stick to his last.
Soon learn, soon forgotten.
An honest man's word is as good as his bond.
Не that goes barefoot must not plant thorns.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Practise what you preach.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth.
Claw me, and I will claw thee.
A bargain is a bargain.
A fool always rushes to the fore.
A good man is hard to find.
A house is not a home.
A prophet is not recognized in his own land.
A volunteer is worth twenty pressed men.
All things must pass.
April is the cruellest month.
Don't keep a dog and bark yourself.
God helps those who help themselves.
He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.
Let bygones be bygones.
Love me, love my dog.
Man does not live by bread alone.
Murder will out.
One man no man.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
There's no such thing as a free lunch.
Time is a great healer.
Wait for the cat to jump.
While the grass grows the horse starves.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
Не that never climbed, never fell.
Advise none to marry or go to war.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away--if you have good aim.
When all men say you are an ass it is time to bray.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
Bad is the best choice.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools. (1640)
Better is the enemy of good.
A great book is a great evil.
Cheaters never prosper.
Circumstances alter cases.
Good clothes open all doors.
Away goes the devil if he finds the door shut against him.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.
Brag is a good dog, but holdfast is better.
When in doubt, do nothing.
Avoid evil and it will avoid thee.
Faults are thick where love is thin. (1659)
Fight fire with fire.
A fool is ever laughing.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all sit near him.
A friend cannot be known in prosperity nor an enemy be hidden in adversity.
Be a friend to thyself, and others will befriend thee.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
Garbage in, garbage out.
He gives twice who gives in a trice.
Grasp all, lose all.
Never do things by halves.
All things are soon prepared in a well ordered house.
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
Justice delayed is justice denied.
A good mind possesses a kingdom.
He laughs best who laughs last.
Life is what you make it.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
Loose lips sink ships.
A mans worst enemies are often those of his own house.
Many a mickle makes a muckle.
A young man married is a young man marred.
You don't get nothing for nothing.
A civil question deserves a civil answer.
By perseverance the snail reached the arc.
A son is a son 'till he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all her life.
Variety is the spice of life.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
Second thoughts are the best.
Time flies.
Avoid the pleasure which will bite tomorrow.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
A half truth is a whole lie.
You never know what you can do until you try.
What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.
A cheerful wife is the spice of life.
A man's best fortune or his worst is a wife.
Two things prolong your life: A quiet heart and a loving wife.
It takes all sorts of people to make a world.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
Well begun is half done.
Clothes make the man.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Don't cross a bridge before you come to it.
Forgive and forget.
Give and take is fair play.
The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm.
Hindsight is always twenty-twenty.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
If something can go wrong, it will.
If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
Learn to walk before you run.
Let him who is without sin cast the first stone.
Measure twice, cut once.
Misfortunes never come singly.
Nature, time, and patience are three great physicians.
A night with Venus and a life with mercury.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
An old dog will learn no tricks.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
Paddle your own canoe.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
Time is money.
Truth will out.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
What goes up must come down.
Neither fish, flesh nor good red herring.
What is bred in the bone will never come out of the flesh.
A man that breaks his word, bids others be false to him.
A man's studies pass into his character.
A rich man's money often hangs him.
A sharp stomach makes short devotion.
Ye're a foot behint the foremost.
Ye're black aboot the mou' for want o' kissing.
Ye're like the miller's dog--ye lick your lips ere the pock be opened.
You may break a horse's back, be he never so strong.
Young folk may dee, auld folk maun dee.
A cat has nine lives.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
A handful of good life, is better than a bushel of learning.
A word to the wise is enough.
After-wit is dear bought.
Wonder at your auld shoon when ye hae gotten your new.
Ye ca' hardest at the nail that drives fastest.
Ye hae the best end a' the string.
Ye learn your father to get bairns.
Ye may drive the deil into a wife, but ye'll ne'er ding him oot o' her.
Ye'll be hang'd and I'll be harried.
An old cart well used may outlast a new one abused.
Anger begins with folly, and ends with repentance.
Arthur could not tame woman's tongue.
Where drums beat, laws are dumb.
Where old age is evil, youth can learn no good.
Who has a woman has an eel by the tail.
Wife and children are bills of charges.
Wipe wi' the water and wash wi' the towel.
Wise men o sittin.
Better spare to have of your own, than ask of other men.
When a ewie's drowned she's dead.
When a thing is done, advice comes too late.
When drink's in wit's oot.
When the cow has been sold with firmness you may relax for a while and go for a better one.
When ye ca' the dog out o' your ain kail-yaird, dinna ca't into mine.
Do no business with a kinsman.
Dying men speak true.
Truth is a spectre that scares many.
What the church doesn't take, the exchequer carries away.
Every one thinks his sack heaviest.
Every why has a wherefore.
Everything is good in its season.
First try and then trust.
Fly that pleasure which pains afterward.
From a choleric man withdraw a little; from him that says nothing for ever.
Though old and wise, yet still advise.
Times change and we with them.
To bow the body is easy, to bow the will is hard.
Too much hope deceives.
Train up a child in the way he should go.
Truth fears no trial.
Good words cost nought.
He is lifeless that is faultless.
He is wise that is honest.
He is wise that is ware in time.
The owl thinks her own young fairest.
The peerage is the englishman's bible.
The remembrance of past sorrows is joyful.
The rich knows not who is his friend.
The rich man spends his money, the poor man his strength.
The little cannot be great unless he devour many.
The longest at the fire soonest finds cold.
The love of money and the love of learning rarely meet.
The love of the wicked is more dangerous than their hatred.
He that stays in the valley, shall never get over the hill.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
He who works begins well; he who economises ends better.
Hear twice before you speak once.
High places have their precipices.
Sweet are the uses of adversity.
The absent party is always to blame.
The absent saint gets no candle.
If you would know the value of a ducat, try to borrow one.
Put not fire to flax.
Remorse is lust's dessert.
Rich folk have many friends.
Seek that which may be found.
Small birds must have meat.
It early pricks that will be a thorn.
It is good grafting on a good stock.
It is not the beard that makes the philosopher.
One thief will not rob another.
Pay what you owe and you'll know what you're worth.
Possession is nine tenths of the law.
It is profound ignorance that inspires the dogmatic tone.
It takes two to tango.
Kings have many ears and many eyes.
None so deaf as those who will not hear.
Nurture and good manners makes man.
Obedience is much more seen in little things than in great.
Old age doesn't protect from folly.
Once a use and ever a custom.
One can love and be wise.
Let my lamp at midnight hour be seen in some high lonely tower.
Love covers many infirmities.
Love lasts as long as money endures.
No living man all things can.
No man can play the fool so well as the wise man.
No man so wise but he may be deceived.
No root, no fruit.
Love me little, love me long.
Make not your sail too big for your ballast.
Man, woman, and devil, are the three degrees of comparison.
Manners make often fortunes.
Many a good cow has an evil calf.
Many a one for land takes a fool by the hand.
Many women, many words; many geese, many turds.
Marriage halves our griefs, doubles our joys, and quadruples our expenses.
Misfortune is not that which can be avoided, but that which cannot.
Misfortunes come of themselves.
Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin.
A cobbler formed the shape of shoes on a wooden foot shaped last. If it lasted long he was happy.
A creaking door hangs longest.
A crowd is not company.
A crown's no cure for a headache.
A flow will have an ebb.
You'll always miss 100% of the [basketball] shots you don't take.
Young people don't know what age is, and old people forget what youth was.
Zeal without knowledge is like fire without light.
A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison.
A blind man will not thank you for a looking-glass.
A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture.
A broken leg is not healed by a silk stocking.
A cat with a straw tail keeps away from fire.
A good conscience is a continual feast.
You have to break a few eggs to make an omelette.
You lose some... and you win some... and some you don't even bother to play.
You may find the worst enemy or best friend in yourself.
You may poke a man's fire after you've known him for seven years.
You never miss a slice from a cut loaf.
You should lie down with the lamb and rise with the lark.
A half the truth is often a whole lie.
A hungry man is an angry man.
A king's face should show grace.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgement.
You can't have it both ways.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.
A lock is better than suspicion.
Without sleep, no health.
Women are like wasps in their anger.
Worrying is like sitting in a rocking chair. It gives you something to do but it doesn't get you anywhere.
Write with the learned, but speak with the vulgar.
You catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
You can have no more of a cat than her skin.
A merry host makes merry guests.
A pig never smells its own stink.
Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns.
Wise men make proverbs but fools repeat them.
Witches and harlots come out at night.
A poor beauty finds more lovers than husbands.
When two agree in their desire, One sparke will set them both on fire.
While the doctors consult, the patient dies.
While there's life, there's hope.
A young man idle, an old man needy.
When in motion, to push on is easy.
Adversity flatters no man.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
Advice is least heeded when most needed.
Advice to all, security for none.
Sauce for the goose, is sauce for the gander.
Whatsoever was the father of the disease, an ill diet was the mother.
When a man repeats a promise again and again, he means to fail you.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
Venture a small fish to catch a much greater one.
Venture not to defend what your judgment doubts of.
Want is the whetstone of wit.
We all make mistakes.
We are all in this together.
We are often shot with our own feathers.
We have all forgot more than we remember.
We must take the bad with the good.
Welcome, evil, if thou comest alone.
What "they say" is half lies.
Two wrongs don't make a right, but three lefts do.
Up a creek without a paddle.
Use soft words and hard arguments.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a sword.
Time heals all wounds.
Time is of the esscence.
Time is the soul of business.
Time trieth truth.
Appearances can be deceptive.
They who have much business must have much pardon.
They who love most are least valued.
Think globally, act locally.
Think of ease, but work on.
Beauty draws more than oxen.
Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails.
There is safety in numbers.
There was never a conflict without a woman.
There's always a deep breath before a plunge.
Better to kiss a knave than be troubled with him.
There is a remedy for everything except death.
There is an exception to every rule.
There is an hour wherein a man might be happy all his life, could he find it.
There is but one road out of the tower and that leads to the scaffold.
There is honor even among thieves.
There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry.
There is no better looking-glass than an old friend.
Boldness in business is the first, second and third thing.
Bread is the staff of life.
The sting of a reproach is the truth of it.
The third time someone tries to put a saddle on you, you should admit you're a horse.
The tree is known by its fruit.
The wit of one man, the wisdom of many.
The worse the passage the more welcome the port.
Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest.
By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn.
Caesar's wife must be above suspicion.
Character is easier kept than recovered.
Cheat me in the price, but not in the goods.
Cheese and money should always sleep together one night.
Chickens have come home to roost.
The opera ain't over until the fat lady sings.
The pitcher that goes too often to the well is broken at last.
The pitcher will go to the well once too often.
The ship that will not obey the helm will have to obey the rocks.
Cider on beer, never fear; beer upon cider, makes a bad rider.
Clogs to clogs in three generations.
Close but no cigar.
Cold pudding settles love.
Craftiness must have clothes, but truth loves to go naked.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
The most manifest sign of wisdom is a continual cheerfulness.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat.
The noisy fowler catches no birds.
Danger is next neighbor to security.
Dead news, like dead love, has no phoenix in its ashes.
Death always comes too early or too late.
Death closes all doors.
Death is a shadow that always follows the body.
Death pays all debts.
Desire is nourished by delay.
Despair doubles our strength.
Desperate cuts must have desperate cures.
The golden age never was the present age.
The greater the sinner, the greater the saint.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The heaviest baggage for a traveler is an empty wallet.
Different sores must have different salves.
Different strokes for different folks.
Diseases come on horseback, but steal away on foot.
Do not be in a hurry to tie what you cannot untie.
Do not dwell in a city where a horse does not neigh nor a dog bark.
The devil finds work for idle hands.
The difference is wide that the sheets will not decide.
The fairer the hostess the fouler the reckoning.
The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them.
The camel asking for horns lost also his ears.
The charitable give out the door and god puts in at the window.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
The covetous spends more than the liberal.
The crow went traveling abroad and came back just as black.
Don't spit into the wind.
Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny of tar.
Don't think to hunt two hares with one hound.
Don't trudge mud into the house of love.
The bait hides the hook.
The beauty of things lies in the mind that contemplates it.
The best things come in small packages.
Bigger they are, the harder they fall.
Eat not cherries with the great.
Eat to live, don't live to eat.
Education begins a gentleman, conversation completes him.
Eternity has no grey hairs.
Even a blind squirrel finds a nut once in a while.
Sweep in front of your own door.
Take a dog for a companion and a stick in your hand.
Take care of your pennies and your pounds will take care of your heirs and barristers.
Talk is cheap.
Even a worm will turn.
Sometimes people who live in glass houses throw stones because their windows are painted.
Soon ripe, soon rotten.
Sorrow is always dry.
Sorrow remembered sweetens present joy.
Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will break my spirit.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
Everyone is weary: the poor in seeking, the rich in keeping, the good in learning.
Evil comes to us by ells and goes away by inches.
Experience is the mistress of fools.
Experience is the mother of knowledge.
Self-praise is nno praise at all.
Sex is like war, both are exciting but neither informative.
Short acquaintance brings repentance.
Silence is golden.
Silence means consent.
Slop your hogs before you feed your children.
Small cheer and great welcome make a great feast.
Some are very busy and yet do nothing.
Far from court, far from care.
Favour will surely perish as life.
Few are fit to be entrusted with themselves.
Finders keepers, losers seekers.
Raw leather will stretch.
Salvage Something From Every Setback.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck.
Seeing is believing.
Fools and children tell the truth.
Fools gawp at masterpieces - wise men set out to outdo masterpieces.
Fresh pork and new wine kill a man before his time.
Pride in prosperity turns to misery in adversity.
Prosperity gets followers, but adversity distinguishes them.
Rather weigh the will of the speaker, than the worth of the words.
Friends are like fiddle strings, they must not be screwed too tight.
Give a man rope enough and he will hang himself.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
God blesses a drunk.
Pigs might fly lest they had wings.
Pin not your faith on another's sleeve.
Poor Trust is dead; Bad Pay killed him.
Poverty is no vice, but an inconvenience.
Poverty is not a shame, but the being ashamed of it is.
Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely.
God is better pleased with adverbs than with nouns.
God is dead.
God looks to clean hands, not to full ones.
Good judgement comes from experience, and experience comes from poor judgement.
One picture is worth ten thousand words.
One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
Happy is the bride the sun shines on.
Have not want not.
One man's trash is another man's treasure.
Have you any Spanish?
He hath good judgement that relieth not wholly on his own.
He helps little that helps not himself.
He that after sinning mends, recommends himself to god.
He that asketh a courtesy promiseth a kindness.
He that blames would buy.
He that blows in the dust fills his eyes with it.
No worst pestilence than a familiar enemy.
Nor pot to piss in.
He that buyeth magistracy will seek justice.
He that cheateth in small things is a fool, but in great things is a rogue.
He that does amiss may do well.
He that gets forgets, but he that wants thinks on.
He that is fallen cannot help him that is down.
No hoof, no horse.
No man is content with his lot.
He that lives most dies most.
He that lives too fast, goes to his grave too soon.
He that plants trees loves others besides himself.
He that plays with cats must expect to be scratched.
He that shippeth the devil must make the best of him.
Never step over one duty to perform another.
He that would the daughter win Must with the mother first begin.
He who has an art has everywhere a part.
He who has carried the calf will be able by and by to carry the ox.
He who killeth the lion when absent feareth a mouse when present.
He who laughs last laughs longest.
Money for old rope.
Much ado and little help.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Nature is the true law.
He who lives according to nature will never be poor, and he who lives according to opinion will never be rich.
He who sleeps forgets his hunger.
He who treats himself has a fool for a patient.
His fore feet though you sever, his grip he'll make good.
Man with four balls can't walk.
Master your passions or your passions will master you.
Medicines be not meat to live by.
Home is where you hang your hat.
Love is full of busy fear.
Luck has a slender anchorage.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Make love not war.
Making a rod for your own back.
If ignorance is bliss, why aren't more people happy?
If it jams, force it. If it breaks, it probably needed fixing anyway.
If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain.
If thou hast not a capon, feed on an onion.
Like lavender, grow sweeter as you grow older.
Like water off a duck's back.
If thou seest ought amiss, mend it in thyself.
If you can't join them, beat them.
If you keep your mouth shut, you won't put your foot in it.
If you rock the cradle empty, then you shall have babies plenty.
Learning makes a man fit company for himself as well as for others.
Lie down with dogs, wake up with fleas.
If you want a thing done, go. If not, send. The shortest answer is doing.
If you want peace, you must prepare for war.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
In every country dogs bite.
Kisses are keys.
Knock and the door will be opened unto you.
Laugh before breakfast and you'll cry before lunch.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Law cannot persuade where it cannot punish.
Innocent actions carry their warrant with them.
It is a bold mouse that nestles in the cat's ear.
It is a good wind that blows a man to the wine.
It's the squeaky wheel that gets the grease.
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.
It is ill fishing before the net.
It is pride, not nature, that craves much.
It was the last straw that broke the camel's back.
Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold.
The dog that fetches will carry.
To be good tends to give absence later on.
When all is wet to the skin, hold out yet.
When you hear hoofbeats, think horses, not zebras.
You can't free a fish from water.
Romeo must die in order to save the love.
The best way to see divine light is to put out your own candle.
The nail that sticks out gets pounded.
The riches of the mind may make a man rich and happy.
Think and thank god.
What bread men break is broken to them again.
Why have a dog and bark yourself?
Ye'll neither dee for your wit nor be drowned for a warlock.
Rules are made to be broken.
Some man are wise, and some are otherwise.
Talking a mile a minute.
The bird is known by his note, the man by his words.
There is not the thickness of a sixpence between good and evil.
To dead men and absent there are no friends left.
What canna be cured maun be endured.
Ye'll no sell your hen in a rainy day.
You can't teach grandma to suck eggs.
Your een's greedier than your guts.
Pluck not a courtesy in the bud.
Far fowls have fair feathers.
The more acquaintance, the more danger.
Year of snow fruit will grow.
It is ill prizing of green barley.
Each cross has its own inscription.
Foul water will quench fire.
Set good against evil.
Young men may die, old men must.
Death keeps no calendar.
Young men's knocks old men feel.
The first step is usually the hardest.
When in doubt, do nought.
Wide lugs an a short tongue is best.
Ye're like a bad liver--the last day there's aye maist to do wi' ye.
Youth never casts for peril.
Quarrelsome dogs get dirty coats.
Tomorrow is a new day.
What is extraordinary, try to look at with your own eyes.
You may find your best friend or your worst enemy in yourself.
Raining cats and dogs.
The citizen is at his business before the sun rises.
The other side of the road always looks cleanest.
We never know the worth of water until the well is dry.
What is gold is worth gold.
Wives maun be had whether gude or bad.
Sometimes clemency is cruelty, and cruelty clemency.
The fed hound never hunts.
The noisiest drum has nothing in it but air.
What cannot gold do?
When everyone takes care of himself, care is taken of all.
Why worry? If you worry - you die. If you don't worry - you'll still die. So why worry?
You can't win them all.You win a few, you lose a few.
Your thrift's as gude as the profit o' a yeld hen.
Scratch a Russian and you will find a Tartar.
Elbow grease is the best polish.
Good words cool more than cold water.
No time like the present.
The person who pursues revenge should dig two graves.
The village slatternly wench has the form of a dove, the heart of a fox, and the mind of an toad.
What's in your wame's not in your testament.
Practice makes permanent.
Reputation is commonly measured by the acre.
The money you refuse will never do you good.
They that think no ill are soonest beguiled.
Time is a file that wears and makes no noise.
Tread on the ball, live to spend all.
One acre of performance, is worth twenty of the land of promise.
People with wax heads shouldn't walk in the sun.
Revenge is a dish that should be eaten cold.
The darkest place is under the candlestick.
The more cost, the more honour.
Treat them mean, keep them keen.
Ye should be a king of your word.
You cannot make people honest by an act of parliament.
You will not rise to the occasion, you will default to the level of your training.
Never love with all your heart, it only ends in breaking.
Proportion your expenses to what you have, not what you expect.
Never fall out with your bread and butter.
Take a hair of the dog that has bitten you.
Whom we love best, to them we can say least.
There's many a good cock come out of a tattered bag.
Stupidity won't kill you, but it can make you sweat.
Who is so deaf or so blind as he that willfully will neither hear nor see?
The face is no index to the heart.
Spring is when you feel like whistling even with a shoe full of slush.
Poor thieves in halters we behold; And great thieves in their chains of gold.
The eyes are the window of the soul.
Spring has come when you can put your foot on three daisies.
Old praise dies unless you feed it.
Spread the table and contention will cease.
Still he fisheth that catcheth one.
Late children are early orphans.
The belly teaches all arts.
The more furrows the more corn.
Trust god and keep your powder dry.
When ye are weel, haud yoursel sae.
Who eats his cock alone must saddle his horse alone.
Ye wad marry a midden for the muck.
You win some, you lose some.
The rich man may dine when he will, the poor man when he may.
Wha canna gie will little get.
You can't escape your destiny.
Please the eye and plague the heart.
Leave a great talker in the middle of the street.
Disease is soon shaken By physic soon taken.
He declares himself guilty who justifies himself before accusation.
Discretion in speech is more important than eloquence.
He who says what he likes will hear what he does not like.
We are all Adam's children, but silk makes the difference.
The greater the truth, the greater the libel.
The brains of a fox will be of little service if you play with the paw of a lion.
The fingers have got pretty close to the thumb.
The longer we live, the more wonders we see.
What can't speak can't lie.
When friends fall out the truth doth appear.
Wide ears and short tongue are the best.
Ye canna mak a silk purse out o' a sow's lug.
If youth knew what age would crave, it would both get and save.
It is ill jesting with sharp tools.
It is a poor wood that has never a withered bough in it.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving against the Pope.
Love is full of fear.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow.
If you don't love yourself with passion, you'll love others with it. Passion is conserved.
It is a proud horse that will not bear his own provender.
Learning makes a good man better and a bad man worse.
Money talks, bullshit walks.
If mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
It is a sin against hospitality to open the doors and shut up the countenance.
Learning makes people fit company for themselves.
Many a one blames his wife for his own unthrift.
An eel by his tail, an Irishman at his word.
A horn spoon holds no poison.
He that's a wise man by day is no fool by night.
For whom does the blind man's wife paint herself?
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.
In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty.
He that will take the bird must not scare it.
Don't lock the stable door after the horse is stolen.
In a cat's eye, all things belong to cats.
Don't drown the man who taught you to swim.
None knows the weight of another's burden.
Mouth is in gear, brain is in neutral.
No man's religion ever survived his morals.
Nothing is lost in a good market.
Custom without reason is but ancient error.
Easter so longed for is gone in a day.
Damned if you do, damned if you don't.
A good lawyer, an evil neighbour.
Eat when you're hungry, and drink when you're dry.
No man better knows what good is than he who has endured evil.
It takes great wisdom to play the fool.
Misfotunes come on wings and depart on foot.
No man can make his own good luck.
Old chains gall less than new.
It is hard to pay for porridge that has been eaten.
It takes two blows to make a battle.
Life's a bitch and then you marry one.
Look to yourself when your neighbour's house is on fire.
Man learns little from success, but much from failure.
Never do today what you can put off till tomorrow.
No man has a worse friend than he brings from home.
If every bird take back its own feathers, you'll be naked.
Crowns have cares.
Crumb not your bread before you taste your porridge.
Do unto others as you would they should do unto you.
Drive your business, do not let it drive you.
Is there no mean but fast or feast?
It should be better to blame friends at a distance.
Marry in lent, and you'll learn to repent.
Faith without works is dead.
Great minds think alike, but fools seldom differ.
He is wise that has wit enough for his own affairs.
History never repeats itself, but it does rhyme.
Idle folks have the least leisure.
Green leaves and brown leaves fall from the same tree.
He that sows trusts in god.
Home is home, though it be never so homely.
Fourty Two is the answer.
Habbit is a second nature.
He that laughs when he is alone will make sport in company.
God's a good man.
Hair of the dog that bit you.
Eat, drink, be merry, for tomorrow we die.
Ambition makes people scorn rustic living.
A wise man cares not for what he cannot have.
Better hand loose than in an ill tethering.
Ell and tell is good merchandise.
Enjoy your little while the fool is seeking for more.
Fish and visitors smell in three days.
Happy wife, happy life.
He that has no good trade, it is to his loss.
Examine well the counsel that favours your desire.
Give her bells and let her fly.
He that has the spice, may season as he list.
Good fame is better than a good face.
He that hath no ill fortune is troubled with good.
Heaven hath no rage like love to hatred turned, Nor Hell a fury like a woman scorned.
Fools are weatherwise, and those that are weatherwise are seldom otherwise.
Go abroad and you'll hear news of home.
He that is angry without a cause shall be pleased without amends.
Ever since we wear clothes, we know not each other.
Eyes are bigger than your belly.
Good men suffer much.
He that is at ease seeks dainties.
He who eats until he is ill must fast until he is well.
Every coin has two sides.
Good to begin well, better to end well.
He is a fool who cannot be angry; but he is a wise man who will not.
However far a man goes, he must start from his own door.
Every day is a new beginning.
God gives his anger by weight, but his pity without measure.
Friends tie thier purse with a cobweb thread.
Health and gaiety foster beauty.
Many a little makes a mickle.
A bad settlement is better than a good lawsuit.
A beggar can never be bankrupt.
A blow with a word strikes deeper than a blow with a sword.
A bold attempt is half of success.
A book is a friend.
A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle.
A dog will not howl if you beat him with a bone. (1659)
A fool's head never whitens.
A friend is best found in adversity.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
A good candle-holder proves a good gamester.
A good friend never offends.
A hen is heavy when carried far.
A hound's food is in its legs.
A house divided cannot stand.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for.
A lean fee is a fit reward for a lazy clerk.
A little of what you fancy does you good.
A little pot is easily hot.
A live dog is better than a dead lion.
A maid who laughs is half taken.
A man of courage never wants weapons.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools.
A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client.
A merry heart makes a long life.
A picture is worth a thousand words, and yet picture books are for infants.
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
A rotten apple injures its companions.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
A son is a son till he gets him a wife, but a daughter's a daughter the rest of your life.
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
A store is no sore.
A true friend does sometime venture to be offensive.
A wise man changes his mind, but a fool never does.
Absence is the mother of disillusion.
Abundance maketh poor.
Advantage is a better soldier than rashness.
Adventures are to the adventurous.
Advisers run no risks.
All are not friends who speak one fair.
Army marches on its stomach.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
An ill wind that blows no one any good.
Anger dies quickly with a good man.
Anger edges valor.
Anger is a short madness.
Anger is shortlived in a good man.
At Rome one must do the Romans do.
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Behind every great man there's a great woman.
Better a snotty child than his nose wiped off.
Better bow than break.
Better die with honour than live with shame.
Better play a small game than to stand out.
Better to have than wish.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Better underdone than overdone.
Between two stools one falls to the ground.
Beware of Beware of "Had I known”.
Black will take no other hue.
Breed up a crowand he will tear out your eyes.
Burn not your house to scare away the mice.
A solitary man is either a beast or an angel.
The crutch of time does more than the club of Hercules.
Wives must be had, be they good or bad.
Let him that pays the reckoning choose the lodging.
Let the bait hide the hook.
That's the last straw.
On painting and fighting look aloof.
Such beginning, such end.
Sound advice had better be welcome.
Ye look like a rinner, quo' the deil to the lobster.
It is easy to bear the misfortunes of others.
It is good sheltering under an old hedge.
It is not what is he, but what has he.
One kindness is the price of another.
The peacock has fair feathers, but foul feet.
When money speaks the world is silent.
Mind other men, but most yourself.
Much science, much sorrow.
Much travel is needed to ripen a man's rawness.
There's always room at the top.
What greater crime than loss of time?
What may be done at ony time will be done at nae time.
Religion, credit, and the eye are not to be touched.
Men get wealth and women keep it.
Men make houses, women make homes.
Of a thorn springs not a fig.
Vice is often clothed in virtue's habit.
No summer, but has its winter.
No pleasure without pain.
He that seeks a horse or a wife without fault, has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed.
If you always say "no', you'll never be married.
Every man will have his own turn served.
Lawyers' gowns are lined with the wilfulness of their clients.
The air of a window is as the stroke of a cross-bow.
Thrift is a great revenue. a little, often, leaves wrinkles in the purse.
Eagles don't catch flies.
If you make songs about yourself, you can't blame other people for singing them.
No gain without pain.
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.
Once a thief, always a thief.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Where there's muck there's brass.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
The fat is in the fire.
Health is better than wealth.
Call a spade a spade.
Of two evils choose the least.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
There is no royal road to learning.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
When flatterers meet, the devil goes to dinner.
When one door shuts another opens.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
Не that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
Не that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
It is better to wear out than to rust out.
The best is often the enemy of the good.
Slow and steady wins the race.
All truths are not to be told.
Wade not in unknown waters.
Let well alone.
One cannot be too careful.
One cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
Accidents will happen in the best regulated families.
No rose without a thorn.
No garden without its weeds.
Never say die.
There is nothing new under the sun.
Nothing hurts more than truth.
Beware of a silent dog and still water.
Every little helps.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Confession is good for the soul.
Needs must when the devil drives.
Curses like chickens come home to roost.
A bird may be known by its song.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Business before pleasure.
Dog eat dog.
The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
Opportunity seldom knocks twice.
Things past cannot be recalled.
A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound.
It is never too late to learn.
No good building without good foundation.
Не dances well to whom fortune pipes.
What can't be cured, must be endured.
What will be will be.
What the eye does not see the heart does not grieve over.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Don't trouble the trouble, until the trouble troubles you.
Broken watch twice a day shows the correct time.
Coin a phrase.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
Don't put new wine into old bottles.
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'pworth of tar.
Don't try to walk before you can crawl.
Don't worry, be happy.
Enough is enough.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
Great minds think alike.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
If at first you don't succeed try, try and try again.
Into every life a little rain must fall.
It's all grist to the mill.
It's better to light a candle than curse the darkness.
It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted.
It's raining cats and dogs.
Mighty oaks from little acorns grow.
Music has charms to soothe the savage beast.
No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
No rest for the wicked.
Once a priest, always a priest.
Only fools and horses work.
Opportunity only knocks once.
Pearls of wisdom.
Physician heal thyself.
Red sky in the morning shepherds warning.
Speak softly and carry a big stick.
The Devil finds work for idle hands to do.
The stick bends but does not break.
There's no bad weather, there are bad clothes.
There's no such thing as bad publicity.
Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas.
To carry coals to Newcastle.
To the victor goes the spoils.
We are wise enough ourselves.
With friends like these, you don't need enemies.
You can't make bricks without straw.
Youth is wasted on the young.
Prosperity makes friends, and adversity tries them. Успех находит друзей, а горе испытывает их.
A good friend is my nearest relation. Хороший друг – мой ближайший родственник.
False friends are worse than open enemies. Коварный друг опаснее заклятого врага.
Happy is he whose friends were born before him. Счастлив тот, чьи друзья родились раньше него.
No friendship is strong that owes its rise to a pot. Недолговечна дружба, возникшая за обе денным столом.
They are rich who have true friends. Тот богат, у кого верные друзья.
When a friend asks there is no tomorrow. Для друга не существует «завтра».
Accidents will happen in the best families. (19th century)
He who does not advance goes backwards.
America is God's melting-pot. (Israel Zangwill)
Anger makes dull men witty, but it keeps them poor. (Francis Bacon)
Do not let sunset find you still nursing your anger.
One rotten apple will spoil the whole barrel. or One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby. (Strauss 1994, p. 683)
Bait the hook well and the fish will bite.
Beauty is truth, truth beauty (John Keats)
The best is cheapest.
The good is the enemy of the best.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death; Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the Devil.
Family before Friendship.
Books think for me. (Charles Lamb)
Classic, a book which people praise and don't read. (Mark Twain)
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested. (Francis Bacon)
Don't judge a man until you have walked a mile in his boots.
Much bran and little meal.
To burn the candle at both ends. (1678)
Mind your own business.
Buy cheap, sell dearǃ (Thomas Lodge)
A man cannot eat his cake and haue it stil: / That may he, vnlesse his retention be ill.
He that is worst may still hold the candle.
Cold as charity. (14th century)
The child is father to the man.
Carrying coals to Newcastle.
The coast is clear. (17th century)
All colours will agree in the dark. (Francis Bacon)
Counsel is no command.
Two is a company; three is a crowd.
Two is company, three is none. (19th century)
Confidence begets confidence. (Strauss 1994, p. 187)
He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1044)
Our country, right or wrongǃ (Stephen Decatur)
Enjoy the present day, trusting little to what tomorrow may bring.
The day is short and the work is long. (15th century)
In the long run we are all dead.
Deep calls to deep. (Strauss 1994, p. 695)
In the deepest water is the best fishing. (1616)
There is danger in delay. (Strauss, 1998 p. 695)
Idle hands are the devil's playthings.
Where God has a church the devil will have his chapel.
We all labour against our own cure, for death is the cure of all diseases. (Sir Thomas Browne)
God heals, and the doctor takes the fee. (1640)
Every dog has his day. (1546)
If you lie down with dogs, you'll get up with fleas.
It is not the size of the dog in the fight that counts, but the fight in the dog that wins.
Eat your own dog food.
The door swings both ways.
We are such stuff / As dreams are made of.
What's drinking? / A mere pause from thinking. (Lord Byron)
Once a drunkard always a drunkard.
Dwarf on a giant's shoulder sees farther of the two.
In at one ear and out at the other. (14th century)
Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet... (Rudyard Kipling)
You don't shit where you eat.
Eggs and oaths are soon broken.
Egotist: a person of low taste, more interested in himself than in me. (Ambrose Bierce)
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end. (Strauss, 1994 p. 600)
Do not think that one enemy is insignificant, or that a thousand friends are too many.
We carry our greatest enemies within us.
Energy is Eternal Delight. (William Blake)
Everyone talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
What everybody says must be true.
Example is better than correction.
Fair play's a jewel.
Far from eye, far from heart. (14th century)
Fashion: a despot whom the wise ridicule and obey. (Ambrose Bierce)
We have nothing to fear but fear itself.
There is no smoke without fire. (15th century, Citatboken)
There are as good fish in the sea as ever were caught.
Go with the flow.
Say it with flowers. (Patrick O'Keefe)
A fool sees not the same tree that a wise man sees. (William Blake)
Fools live poor to die rich.
The first chapter of fools is to think themselves wise.
He is a fool that forgets himself. (14th century)
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance,
When fools pipe, he may dance.
If fortune favours, beware of being exalted; if fortune thunders, beware of being overwhelmed.
Fire, quoth the fox, when he pissed on the ice.
Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead.
Friends are thieves of time. (17th century)
He is my friend that succoreth me, not he that pitieth me.
If you want enemies excel others, if you want friends let others excel you.
Our friends are our mirrors and show us ourselves.
Perfect friendship cannot be without equality.
Stolen fruit is the sweetest. (Strauss, 1994 p. 835)
Once a gentleman, always a gentleman. (Charles Dickens)
God is, and all is well.
God is on the side of the strongest battalions. (Kin 1955, p. 255)
God's a good man. (William Shakespeare)
Rich men seem happy, great and wise, all which the good man only is.
The best goods are cheapest in the end. (Kelly, 1859 p, 95)
Goose, gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing. (Strauss, 1994 p. 104)
Whoever gossips to you will gossip of you.
That government is best which governs least.
Great minds agree.
Fretting cares make grey hairs. (Strauss, 1994.
One hand washes the other.
Handsome is that handsome does. (1670) (Strauss, 1994 p. 879)
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
Who falls short in the head must be long in the heels.
The heart sees farther than the head.
We are as near to heaven by sea as by land! (Humphrey Gilbert)
Hell is empty and all the devils are here. (William Shakespeare)
If the hill will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet will go to the hill. (Francis Bacon)
What is honour? a word. What is that word, honour? Air. (William Shakespeare)
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreasefh.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
Hospitality: the virtue which induces us to feed and lodge certain persons who are not in need of food and lodging. (Ambrose Bierce)
Imiation is the highest form of flattery.
Don't have too many irons in the fire. (16th century) (Citatboken)
Strike while the iron is hot. or Make hay while the sun shines.
Joy shared, joy doubled: sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
Justice pleaseth few in their own house.
Without justice, courage is weak.
Know thyself.
Learning is the eye of the mind.
Laugh and the world laughs with you. Cry and you cry alone.
Less is more.
It is a strange desire to seek power and to lose liberty. (Francis Bacon)
A losing trade, I assure you, sir; literature is a drug. (George Borrow)
Love and ambition admit no fellowship.
Those have most power to hurt us that we love. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Though this be madness, yet there is method in't. (William Shakespeare)
Make the best of a bad bargain.
Man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave. (Thomas Browne)
Thou wilt scarce be a man before thy mother. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Might is right. (14th century)
Men talk only to conceal the mind.
For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil.
I'm tired of Love: I'm still more tired of Rhyme. But Money gives me pleasure all the time. (Hilaire Belloc)
Money is like muck, not good except it be spread. (Francis Bacon)
Money speaks sense in a language all nations understand. (Aphra Behn)
Much is expected where much is given. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1095)
For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse is lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
The nail that sticks up will be hammered down. (Whatling, 2009) From the Japanese, "deru kugi wa utareru."
Nature, to be commanded, must be obeyed. (Francis Bacon)
No means no.
Lose nothing for want of asking.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained. (Manser, 2007 p. 207)
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
Take care of number one.
Never ask pardon before you are accused.
All political parties die at last of swallowing their own lies. (John Arbuthnot)
A penny for your thoughts.
All rising to great place is by a winding stair. (Francis Bacon)
He had need rise early who would please everybody.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
Precepts teach, examples move.
A prejudice is a vagrant opinion without visible means of support. (Ambrose Bierce)
All those men have their price. (Robert Walpole)
If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.
An acre of performance is worth the whole world of promise.
Perverts the Prophets, and purloins the Psalms.
As proud as Lucifer. (14th century)
Like a red rag to a bull.
Reason does not come before years.
There is small revenge in words, but words may be greatly revenged.
To forget wrong is the best revenge.
If you're so smart, why aren't you rich?
He makes a rod for his own back. (14th century)
He complains wrongfully at the sea that suffer shipwreck twice.
There are none so blind as they who do not want to see.
Proffer'd service stinks.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
To know where the shoe pinches. (14th century)
Eighty percent of life is showing up.
Silence gives consent. (14th century)
The rest is silence. (William Shakespeare, Hamlet)
Keep it simple, stupid. (KISS)
As slippery as an eel. (15th century)
If you snooze you lose.
O, God, if there be a God, save my soul if I have a soulǃ (A soldier before the battle of Blenheim in 1704)
To sow one's wild oats. (16th century)
Leave no stone unturned.
Old streets a glamour hold. (K. W. Baker)
Confidence is the companion of success.
Success is a journey not a destination.
Sunday clears away the rust of the whole week. (Joseph Addison)
Suspicions amongst thoughts are like bats amongst birds, they ever fly by twilight. (Francis Bacon)
Take things as you find them. (Strauss 1994, p. 722)
He that talketh what he knoweth, will also talk what he knoweth not. (Francis Bacon)
It takes two to tango. (Oshry, 1996 p. 59)
Without temptation there is no victory.
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.
First thoughts are best.
Time himself is bald. (William Shakespeare)
There is no time like the present. (18th century) (Citatboken)
There is nothing more precious than time and nothing more prodigally wasted.
Galen explains clearly, if less succinctly, in De Causis Procatarcticis (2nd c. A.D.), VI. 63–65:.
People only throw stones at trees with fruit on them.
There is no tree but bears some fruit.
He that waits on another man's trencher, makes many a late dinner.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about. (Strauss, 1994 p. 221)
The truth shall set you free, or The truth will set you free.
Truth seeks no corners.
Don't try to be someone you're not.
Variety is the soul of pleasure. (Aphra Behn)
Let every vat stand upon its own bottom. (William Bullein)
It takes a village to raise a child.
Don't talk the talk if you can't walk the walk.
Walk the talk. (Manser, 2007)
War is too important to be left to the generals.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
Go West, young man, go West! (John Soule)
There are only two kinds of women, the plain and the coloured.
He that will not when he may, when he will he may have nay.
He that sows the wind shall reap the whirlwind.
Winning isn't everything, it's the only thing.
The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom. (William Blake)
There is no other purgatory but a woman. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Touch wood. (20th century)
A deluge of words and a drop of sense.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
He is worth his weight in gold. (16th century)
Diligent youth makes easy age.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
Young saint, old devil. (15th century)
Youth and age will never agree. (16th century)
A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
Catch not a shadow and lose the substance.
Confidence begets confidence.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
Don't bark if you can't bite.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby.
Do not play with edged tools.
Each to his own taste.
An empty vessel makes the most noise.
Every rose has its thorn.
Evil begets evil.
A fox smells its own lair first. Or: A fox smells its own stink first.
From those to whom much is given, much is expected.
Give a dog a bad name and he'll live up to it. (or ...he'll repay you for it.)
Give, and ye shall receive.
Good swimmers are often drowned.
Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.
Health is wealth.
I complained I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
If life gives you lemons, make lemonade.
If the truth hurts, you are not living right.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
If you fail to plan, then you plan to fail.
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
It's a cracked pitcher that goes longest to the well.
It's always darkest before the dawn.
It's better to be silent and thought a fool, than to speak up and remove all doubt.
It ain't over till it's over.
Jack of all trades and master of None. (18th century)
Judge each day not by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.
Kindness, like a boomerang, always returns.
A kingdom is lost for want of a shoe.
Lead by example.
Life is ten percent what happens to you and ninety percent how you respond to it.
Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.
Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.
Life is what you make of it. Always has been, always will be.
Life's battle don't always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
Love is stronger than any addiction, baby. Hell, it is one. - Madea.
Man proposes but God disposes.
Many rats cannot all at once dig a hole for their home.
The more you study, the more you know. The more you know, the more you forget. The more you forget, the less you know. The less you know, the more you study.
Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.
Never wear a brown hat in Friesland.
One grain of sand can tip the scale.
One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
Out of sight... Out of mind.
Out of small acorns grow mighty oaks.
Perfect Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance. (a.k.a The six P's)
The pitcher which goes too often to the well gets broken.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
Put your money where your mouth is.
Reality is not only stranger than we imagine, it is stranger than we can imagine.
Say something nice or say nothing at all.
Self trust is the first secret of success.
Shit or get off the pot.
Shoemaker, not above the sandal.
Some days you get the bear, other days the bear gets you.
Someone who gossips to you will gossip about you.
Success (only) comes after every necessary precaution.
The man who sleeps with a machete is a fool every night but one.
There is luck in odd numbers.
There is a thin line between love and hate.
There is only eight years between success and failure in politics.
Too many arguments destroyed marriage negotiations.
Too much of one thing, good for nothing.
Use it up, wear it out, make do with, or do without.
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
Where vice goes before, vengeance follows after.
Wise men learn by other men men's harms, fools by their own.
The world is your oyster.
Work is worship.
You know the tree by its fruit.
A baker's dozen.
As high as Heaven, as deep as Hell.
A thorn in the flesh.
Barkis is willin'.
Better a bad excuse, than none at all.
Big-endians and small-endians.
Curses are like young chickens,
And still come home to roost!
Every one stretcheth his legs according to his coverlet.
Fast bind, fast find;
A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.
From the crown of our head to the sole of our foot.
Go to Jericho.
Let them all go to Jericho,
And ne'er be seen againe.
Hail, fellow, well met.
Harp not on that string.
He comes not in my books.
Hide their diminished heads.
Hit the nail on the head.
Honey of Hybla.
How well I feathered my nest.
I have you on the hip.
I'll make the fur
Fly 'bout the ears of the old cur.
I'll put a spoke among your wheels.
Let the worst come to the worst.
Made no more bones.
Many a smale maketh a grate.
Moche Crye and no Wull.
Much of a muchness.
No better than you should be.
Old Lady of Threadneedle Street.
On his last legs.
Passing the Rubicon.
When he arrived at the banks of the Rubicon, which divides Cisalpine Gaul from the rest of Italy ... he stopped to deliberate.... At last he cried out: "The die is cast" and immediately passed the river.
Present company excepted.
Put your toong in your purse.
Smell a rat.
Something given that way.
Sop to Cerebus.
So was hir jolly whistel wel y-wette.
The finest edge is made with the blunt whetstone.
The foule Toade hath a faire stone in his head.
The more thou stir it the worse it will be.
The point is plain as a pike staff.
The short and the long of it.
Though this may be play to you,
'Tis death to us.
Through thick and thin, both over bank and bush.
Through thick and thin, both over Hill and Plain.
Though last, not least in love.
'Tis a stinger.
To rise with the lark, and go to bed with the lamb.
Walls have tongues, and hedges ears.
Westward-ho!
What is not in a man cannot come out of him surely.
What is the matter with Kansas?
What mare's nest hast thou found?
Where McGregor sits, there is the head of the table.
Whistle, and she'll come to you.
Within a stone's throw of it.
Why, then, do you walk as if you had swallowed a ramrod?
You shall never want rope enough.
Ye may be heard where ye're no seen.
Where your will is ready your feet are light.
Beware of "Had I known".
When love cools fauts are seen.
Fair words will not make the pot boil.
Grace will last, beauty will blast.
He plays best that wins.
He that puts on a public gown must put off a private person.
The cowl does not make the monk.
The grey mare is the better horse.
It is not work that kills, but worry.
Labour is light where love pays.
Love begets love.
No mischief but a woman or a priest is at the bottom of it.
Maidens should be meek till they be married.
Many dogs may easily worry one hare.
You need to bait the hook to catch the fish.
You never miss the water till the well runs dry.
You can't squeeze blood from a stone.
Work expands so as to fill the time available.
Wink at small faults unless you can cast the first stone.
When the sword of rebellion is drawn, the sheath should be thrown away.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
When it rains, it pours.
When a man's coat is threadbare it is easy to pick a hole in it.
Too far East is West.
The offender never pardons.
Conscience cannot be compelled.
The leopard does not change his spots.
Dead men tell no tale.
Death devours lambs as well as sheep.
The greatest barkers bite not sorest.
Do as I say, not as I do.
Do not make me kiss and you will not make me sin.
The Devil's children have the Devil's luck.
The eagle does not catch flies.
Do when ye may, or suffer ye the nay, in love 'tis the way.
Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork.
The cat has nine lives: three for playing, three for straying, three for staying.
Don't reckon with your host.
The anvil fears no blows.
The best laid plans of mice and men often go awry.
Early bird gets the worm.
Still waters are the deepest.
Speaking of the devil.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
Fancy passes beauty.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
Riches serve a wise man but command a fool.
Fools build houses and wise men live in them.
For want of a nail a kingdom was lost.
Promise is debt.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
God help the rich, the poor can look after themselves.
Good men are scarce.
One of these day is none of these days.
Only two things in life are certain; death and taxes.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
Old sins have long shadows.
One father is more than a hundred schoolmasters.
He preaches well that lives well.
No time to waste like the present.
He that is too proud to ask is too good to receive.
No risk, no gain.
Never choose your women or linen by candlelight.
Never let the sun go down on your anger.
He who builds by the roadside has many masters.
He who is shipwrecked the second time cannot lay the blame on Neptune.
Money is a good servant, but a bad master.
Must is a king's word.
Many drops make a shower.
May as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
Mind what you must live by.
Honesty is the best policy.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the woods.
Make love like war.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
Little enemies and little wounds must not be despised.
Long fingers count out money.
Length begets loathing.
Knowledge is power.
In the end, a man's motives are second to his accomplishments.
It is best to be on the safe side.
Jack a dull boy.
It is sin to steal a pin.
It will be all the same in a hundred years.
A babe in the woods.
A golden key can open any door.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
A time and a place for everything.
Accidents will happen in the best families.
An exception to every rule.
As proud as a peacock.
As thick as thieves.
Ask not what your country can do for you ask what you can do for your country.
A barking dog never bites.
Best to be on the safe side.
Bigger, the better.
Books think for me.
He who lives according to nature will never be poor.
No bees, no honey; no work, no money.
Take the bull by the horns.
They are rich who have true friends.
A tattler is worse than a thief.
The bull must be taken by the horns.
There is a black sheep in every flock.
It will be a forward cock that crows in the shell.
Two in distress makes sorrow less.
Sport as you may while the master's away.
Appearances are deceptive.
Every day is not Sunday.
Times change.
All are good lasses, but whence come bad wives?
All promises are either broken or kept.
All will come out in the washing.
What we do willingly is easy.
Mend or end.
It is a foolish bird that soils its own nest.
Slow to speak, but quick to act.
The pot calls the kettle black.
Provide for the worst, the best will save itself.
A burden of one's own choice is not felt.
There are spots even in (или on) the sun.
Doing is better than saying.
The day is lost on which you did not laugh.
Cheapest is the dearest.
Happiness takes no account of time.
You will never see good and bad to agree.
Не lives long that lives well.
Other times, other manners.
Fools will be fools.
Не will never set the Thames on fire.
If the sky falls, we shall catch larks.
Eat with pleasure, drink with measure.
It is a sad heart that never rejoices.
As welcome as water in one's shoes.
The belly carries legs.
Life is sweet.
The devil lurks behind the cross.
A forgetful head makes a weary pair of heels.
Bind the sack before it is full.
The longest day must have an end.
Nothing comes from nothing.
Too much water drowned the miller.
I will either win the saddle or lose the horse.
Every cook praises his own broth.
It is like talking to the wall.
As you make your bed, so must you lie on it.
What is the good of a sundial in the shade?
As is the workman, so is the work.
What does the moon care if the dogs bark at her?
When all men speak, no man hears.
When guns speak it is too late to argue.
When a friend asks there is no tomorrow.
Work done, have your fun.
When pigs fly.
Death when it comes will have no denial.
A room without books is a body without soul.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
The royal crown cures not the headache.
The cat shuts its eyes when stealing cream.
Extremes meet.
Fine words dress ill deeds.
Не that fears lives not.
Не that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
The biter is sometimes bit.
Не that loves the tree, loves the branch.
Great barkers are no biters.
Не cannot speak well that cannot hold his tongue.
Не that knows nothing doubts nothing.
He that comes first to the hill may sit where he will.
Не that always complains is never pitied.
Не that promises too much means nothing.
Не that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
Не who would catch fish must not mind getting wet.
Не that loses his honesty has nothing else to lose.
Easier said than done.
Neck or nothing.
Go to bed with lamb and rise with the lark.
The best fish swim near the bottom.
It is better to give than to take.
An injury forgiven is better than an injury revenged.
Better die standing than live kneeling.
No herb will cure love.
Love in a cottage.
A little string will tie a title bird.
Between promising and performing a man may marry his daughter.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
A little bird told me.
Many stumble at a straw and leap over a block.
Great cry and little wool.
Much will have more.
We know not what is good until we have lost it.
Each stain comes to sight on a horse that is white.
Respect is greater from a distance.
Не jests at scars that never felt a wound.
True coral needs no painter's brush.
Wake not a sleeping lion.
All is not gold that glitters.
All bread is not baked in one oven.
Don't empty the baby out with the bath water.
Never fry a fish till it's caught.
Harp not for ever on the same string.
Wink at small faults.
The worse luck now, the better another time.
Give never the wolf the wether to keep.
Не is not the best carpenter that makes the most chips.
Never spur a willing horse.
Hate not at the first harm.
Between two evils it is not worth choosing.
Не is not poor that has little, but he that desires much.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
Never make threats you cannot carry out.
You cannot make a crab walk straight.
Every one's faults are not written in their foreheads.
You cannot touch pitch and not be defiled.
You cannot judge a tree by its bark.
None so blind as those who won't see.
Old friends and old wine are best.
