The worst ache is the present ache.
All lizards lie on their bellies, but nobody knows which of them suffers stomach ache.
Only the sufferers know how their bellies ache.
When the head aches, all the limbs ache.
The Old man is not asked where he aches, but why he does not ache there.
Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache.
Better an ache than a tear.
If you cure a monkey of its tooth ache its your maize farm that suffers.
Every heart has its own ache.
Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional.
An accident rarely comes alone.
Collect promptly, pay slowly; who knows, in case of an accident, you'll pay nothing.
Your first accident may be your last.
Accident is the mother of invention.
Time saved at the cost of an accident is no saving.
Substance is not enough, accident is also required.
If the lady of the house breaks something it is an unfortunate accident; if the servant does, then it is a terrible disaster.
When a rich man falls they say it was an accident; when a poor man falls they say that he was drunk.
A ridiculous accident has often been the making of many.
You cannot buy wisdom abroad if there is none at home.
Help from abroad always comes when the rain has stopped.
A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home.
If you play with the fool at home, he will play with you abroad.
Abroad one has a hundred eyes, at home not one.
Go abroad and you'll hear news of home.
Peccadilloes at home, deadly sins abroad.
It is better to work in your own land than to count your money abroad.
Learn fe dance at home before you go abroad.
He who is ignorant at home is ignorant abroad.
If at home you receive no visitors, then abroad you will have no host.
A lion at home, and a fox abroad.
The crow went traveling abroad and came back just as black.
Go abroad and you'll hear news of home.
A man conducts himself abroad as he has been taught at home.
It is not easy to guard the hen that lays her eggs abroad.
Argus at home, a mole abroad.
Don't preach, neither at home nor abroad.
Play with the fool at home, and he will play with you abroad.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
Abroad we judge the dress; at home we judge the man.
Courage is ten, nine is the ability to escape.
If Only youth had knowledge and old age ability.
The attempt exceeds the ability of one, not of a multitude.
Life is your ability to breath out every time you breathe in.
Ability is the poor man's wealth.
True generosity is the ability to accept ingratitude.
Ability will enable a man to get to the top, but character will keep him from falling.
Ability has no school.
Success is 10% ability, and 90% sweat.
Ability has no school.
The old for want of ability, and the young for want of knowledge, let things be lost.
Apply fitting ability in the fitting place.
True generosity is the ability to accept ingratitude.
Whoever dies is first affected in its ability to reproduce.
The hand of the child cannot reach the shelf, nor the hand of the adult get through the neck of the gourd.
It is an irresponsible adult that creates enmity because of a disagreement that arises between two children.
As a child, is a man wrapped in his mother's womb; as an adult, in tradition; comes death, and he is wrapped in earth.
An elephant grows and becomes an adult, even if people do not like it.
The heart of an adult is like that of an elephant.
An adult is only one who has ceased to grow vertically and started to grow horizontally.
The adult looks to deeds, the child to love.
An adult squatting sees farther than a child on top of tree.
An elephant grows and becomes an adult, even if people do not like it.
Abundance breeds arrogance.
Abundance is from activity.
Abundance of money is a trial for a man.
One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food.
Where there is abundance, there is poverty.
An abundance of money ruins youth.
Abundance begets indifference.
Greed keeps men forever poor, even the abundance of this world will not make them rich.
Abundance of things engenders disdainfulness.
Where a river flows, there is abundance.
An abundance of food at your neighbour's will not satisfy your hunger.
Night is followed by day, famine by abundance.
Abundance, like want, ruins many.
Abundance maketh poor.
It is not want but abundance that makes avarice.
Of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.
Abundance will make cotton pull a stone.
Abundance does not spread; famine does.
Abundance will make cotton pull a stone.
Riches are not from abundance of worldly goods, but from a contented mind.
Where there is content there is abundance.
Of small account is a fly till it gets into the eye.
He who has a clean account, what fear of calculation does he have?
Oosta Alam, take this one into account.
He who makes a fool of himself on account of a woman is well nigh ruined.
When two friends have a common bank account, one sings and the other weeps.
Account by the dinar, give charity by the ass load.
Many return from the war who cannot give an account of the battle.
It is well to fly low on account of the branches.
The account of the donkey is different from that of the donkey-man.
The rat cannot call the cat to account.
It is only the eagle that can give an account of the whisper of the cloud.
Happiness takes no account of time.
He whose account is clean will have a happy face.
The account is correct, but not a sixpense appears.
Who excuses himself without being accused makes his fault manifest.
It is honourable to be accused by those who deserve to be accused.
A man accused of stealing a goat should not entertain his visitors with goats meat.
There can be no judge without an accused.
The court is most merciful when the accused is most rich.
Who makes excuses without being accused, shows his guilt.
He that minds his business at home, will not be accused of taking part in the fray.
It is an honourable thing to be accused by those who are open to accusation.
A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does: If he does not wash his hands, he is accused of being dirty. If he washes his hands, he is accused of wasting water.
Never ask pardon before you are accused.
"When in doubt, in favour of the accused". (Corpus Juris Civilis)
Every reproach against an accused man is contemptible.
A man without passion is no son of Adam.
Adam must have an Eve to blame for his faults.
Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache.
When Adam delved, and Eve span, where was then the gentleman?
Every son of Adam keeps hoping until he is carried away to his grave.
Adam got a hoe, and Eve got a spinning-wheel, and thence come all our nobles.
Adam must have an Eve, to blame for his own faults.
The devil seduced Eve in Italian. Eve mislead Adam in Bohemian. The Lord scolded them both in German. Then the angel drove them from paradise in Hungarian.
Se e ma în do mincion de Adam in scià.
Who acts not, fails not.
When the heart acts, the body is its slave.
He who is too sure of himself and acts without thinking is heading for his downfall.
Good words and bad acts deceive both wise and wimple.
Acts tough but really a wimp.
If a warrior ignores duty, acts dishonorably, or is disloyal, he is nothing.
Acts of kindness may soon be forgotten, but the memory of an offense remains.
From children you must expect childish acts.
A people's legends reveal its character more clearly than its acts and events.
He acts wisely who says little.
By committing foolish acts, one learns wisdom.
With the three means of punishment, words, thoughts and acts, ye shall not injure living things.
We judge others by their acts, but ourselves by our intentions.
Do not do strange acts merely for the sake of astonishing your friends.
If you love me, John, your acts will tell me so.
If you want to know what a man is really like, notice how he acts when he loses money.
Do not abuse palm-wine tappers while drunkness persists.
Abuse often starts with praise.
What you can't have, abuse.
Abuse doesn't hang on the collar.
Abuse of hospitality breaks the bridge.
Abuse is like a god that destroys his master.
Faint praise is akin to abuse.
It is discreditable to fly from a living enemy, or to abuse a dead one.
Riches abuse them who know not how to use them.
Glory lies still; abuse is running.
Abuse does not invalidate usefulness.
Are you not accustomed to look at home, when you abuse others?
It is not to be argued that the abuse of a thing proves that it is useless.
Do not abuse the hospitality of others.
An argument derived from the abuse of a thing does not hold good against its use.
Point at the mulberry and abuse the pagoda tree.
A single conversation across the table with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
Help thy brother's boat across, and lo! thine own has reached the shore.
Help your brother's boat across, and your own will reach the shore.
The lowest fence is the easiest to get across.
Capacious as the sleeve of a monk and patient as the priest with his arms across his chest.
Call the bear "uncle” till you are safe across the bridge.
The one who used to jump across the stream may find herself wading through..
I am being carried on great wings across the sky.
If a dog offers to help you across the river, don't ask if he is suffering from the mange.
Call the bear uncle till you are safe across the bridge.
Don't celebrate until you are across the brook.
The musician who is paid in advance does not play so well.
Work paid for in advance has feet of lead.
Do not drink in advance on the hide of a bear.
Who pays in advance eats stinking fish.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
Better retreat in honor than advance in disgrace.
He who does not advance recedes.
Not to advance is to recede.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
You cannot shave a man's head in his absence.
Absence sharpens love, presence strengthens it.
Virginity is noted only in its absence.
Absence polishes passion, presence reinforces it.
Absence, and a friendly neighbor, washeth away love.
Absence is a shrew.
Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart.
Absence is the enemy of love.
He who maligns you in your absence is afraid of your presence.
Absence is the enemy of love; as the distance is from the eyes, so it is from the heart.
Absence cools moderate passions but inflames violent ones.
Absence kills a little love but makes the big ones grow.
To be good tends to give absence later on.
Absence is the mother of disillusion.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
Absence is a foe to love; out of sight out of mind.
Long absence changes friends.
Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
A good thing is esteemed more in its absence than in its enjoyment.
The silence resulting from absence has destroyed many a friendship.
Absence and a friendly neighbor washes away love.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Happiness consists in the absence of anxiety.
A little absence does a lot of good.
When neighbours quarrel, lookers-on are more apt to add fuel than water.
Add a flower to a bouquet.
It is impossible to add much weight with a single morsel; it is hard to travel afar with a single step.
Add frost to snow.
Add legs to the snake one has just painted.
Add oil to a fire.
Add legs to the snake after you have finished drawing it.
Exaggeration is to paint a snake and add legs.
If you have wit and learning, add to it wisdom and modesty.
Add not fire to fire.
Better not to add salt than over salt.
If you add to the truth, you take something away from it.
The more you add, the worse it gets.
If your sword is short, add one step to it.
A horse aged thirty: don't add any more years.
Add not fire to fire.
Do not add oil to the fire.
'what shall i add for the poor?' asked god. 'fingernails and itch,' answered the poor.
You should not add oil to the fire... Nëm këll a tűzre olajat önteni.
Behind every able man, there are always other able men.
Not being able to reach it with your hat.
It's not the able that give, but the desirous.
If there is no traitor in your house, the witches will never be able to get at you.
He who eats well is able to face an army.
Willing is a good man, but able is a better one.
Philosophy means being able to explain why you are happy when you are poor.
Tell not all you know; believe not all you hear; do not all you are able.
Quiet people are well able to look after themselves.
Pray that you will never have to bear all that you are able to endure.
If the owner of two adjacent farms cannot be friends, then they must wait till their next reincarnation to be able to make friends.
It is by the strength of their number that the ants in the field are able to carry their prey to the nest.
Being able to feel it on wooden shoes.
He that has a good harvest must be able to endure a few thistles.
Do not argue with a fool, for people will not be able to tell between the two of you.
Whichever son is able should bury his father. The first son did not kill him.
One may be generous at heart, but may not be able to afford it.
There is no greater misfortune, than to not be able to endure misfortune.
A good storyteller must be able to lie a little.
To be able to curse once a day improves happiness and lengthens life.
To be able to love other people you must be able to love yourself.
A spiritual leader is able to see the past, present and the future.
He who has carried the calf will be able by and by to carry the ox.
He who wants a fire must be able to bear smoke.
Take no more on you than you're able to bear.
He that hes twa huirds, is able to get the third.
If we blink the eyes in order not to see a wicked person, how shall we be able to see a good person?
To be willing is to be able.
Cut down the tree that you are able to.
If only youth would know, if only old age were able.
In fact, we are often able to do a task because we think we are able to do it.
Not able to take revenge on the donkey, take it out on the saddle.
Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give a bad example.
Let the person in responsibility take care of the matter, as is the most able.
If you have money, men think you are wise, handsome, and able to sing like a bird.
They can because they seem to be able to. [Possunt quia posse videntur.].
An absent person has his excuse.
An absent person should have his excuse.
The absent has always got a justification.
If you are absent you lose your share.
Absent friends get further away every day.
The absent get further off every day.
The absent are always in the wrong.
Women are supernumerary when present, and missed when absent.
The absent always bear the blame.
An absent saint gets no candles.
Strive to be a person who is never absent from an important act.
Those who are absent are always wrong.
The absent are always in the wrong.
When the master is absent, the frogs hop into the house.
One speaks badly of the absent but fears the present.
When cat is absent, mice dance.
Never find fault with the absent.
When weeds invade the land, it means the owner is absent.
Those who are absent are always wrong.
The absent party is always to blame.
The absent saint gets no candle.
He who killeth the lion when absent feareth a mouse when present.
The absent are always to blame.
He who is absent is always in the wrong.
The dead and the absent have no friends.
The eye is blind if the mind is absent.
Master absent and house dead.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
The living who is absent is like a dead man.
Absent people do not inherit.
Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse.
The absent were never in the right.
Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse.
The absent one will not be the heir.
Those who are absent are always wrong.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Those who are absent are always wrong.
Не that fears you present will hate you absent.
Humor is an important asset: it means understanding and self-criticism. where humor is absent, you'll find small-mindedness.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
The most beautiful things in the universe are the starry heavens above us and the feeling of duty within us.
You will often see a high collar above an empty stomach.
The moon and the stars are not above us, the earth is on the other side of our feet.
Strike a match above the sea of opinions and the fish all swim away.
The eye cannot rise above the eyebrow.
If heaven above lets fall a plum, open your mouth.
A stream cannot rise above its source.
In politics, a man must learn to rise above principle.
If you opress who is below you then you won't be safe from the punishment of who is above you.
He who has not been given brains from above will not buy them at the apothecary.
Every bird has a hawk above it.
On the ladder to success there is always somebody on the rung above you and who uses your head to steady himself.
Those sitting above can easily spit on those below.
A palm tree climber is not expected to tell everything he sees from up above.
Never place friendship above profit.
A bird flies high above and its funeral is performed on the ground.
God is high above, and russia is far away.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
One's name remains above the grave.
Above all nations is humanity.
Those above are going down, those below are going up.
Caesar's wife must be above suspicion.
If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to.
If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to. [If fair means cannot, foul shall.].
Who throws a stone above him may have it fall on his own head.
He sits above that deals aikers.
The Malt is above the Meal.
The goose-pan is above the roast.
Swimming is easy if someone holds your head above water.
Heaven above, earth below, and his own position firmly fixed.
Those above are going down, those below are going up.
He who spits above himself will have it fall on his face.
There are two selves, the separate ego and the indivisible Atman. When one rises above I and me and mine, the Atman is revealed as one's real Self.
Truth and oil always rise above.
Shoemaker, not above the sandal.
Good health is above wealth.
May the roof above us never fall in.

And may the friends gathered below it never fall out.
Father above us all,
Kamehameha e,
Who guarded in the war,
With his spear.
A finger's length in a sword, and a palm in a lance, are a great advantage.
Between two cowards, the first to detect the other has the advantage.
Between two cowards, he has the advantage who first detects the other.
Every disadvantage has its advantage.
Be quick to follow up an advantage.
Taking advantage of a murky/confusing situation.
An inch in a sword, or a palm in a lance, is a great advantage.
If I listen, I have the advantage; if I speak, others have it.
Love has its tides; before ebb tide you must take advantage of the flood.
The devil can quote Scripture to his own advantage.
Advantage is a better soldier than rashness.
Of two cowards, the one who finds the other out first has the advantage.
An advantage of poverty, your relatives gain nothing by your death.
In spending lies the advantage.
A race horse gives you an advantage and wins the prize.
When a rich man caresses a poor man, he's going to take advantage of him.
Every advantage has its disadvantage.
He is wise in vain who does not use his wisdom for his own advantage.
If i listen i have the advantage, if i speak others have it.
It's a great advantage to love someone in your neighborhood: you see each other often and you don't have to travel.
The fly that has no one to advise it follows the corpse into the grave.
Advise no one to go to war or to marry.
A river doesn't run straight because there was nobody to advise it.
Monkeys don't advise there young ones to be careful on trees they just remind them of the distance to the ground.
Advise none to marry or go to war.
Though old and wise, yet still advise.
Never advise anyone to go to war or to marry.
To advise is easier than to help.
To advise is not to compel.
Give me good advice but don't advise me not to do it.
When things go well it is easy to advise.
Never advise a man to go to the wars, or to marry.
Never advise someone to go to war or to get married.
Never advise anyone to go to war or to get married. Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present. He that has no children brings them up well.
It is easy to advise the wise.
Advise and counsel him; if he does not listen, let adversity teach him.
Vision with action is a daydream; action without vision is a nightmare.
Speech and action make the perfect conduct.
Counsel before action.
In great action, men show themselves as they ought to be, in small action as they are.
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
Where there is action, there is waste.
The aged in council, the young in action.
Great talk and little action.
Postpone not a good action.
The man who takes legal action often loses an ox to win a cat.
Virtue consists in action.
Every action has its consequences.
All mouth and no trousers. All talk and no action.
There is no beauty but the beauty of action.
A double jointed arm follows the leg action.
For the sake of one good action, a hundred evil ones should be forgotten.
Every action has its repercussions.
Ideas are worth a dime dozen, but people who put them into action are priceless.
Action is worry's worst enemy.
Action without thought is like shooting without aim.
The key to all action lies in belief.
Counsel after action is like rain after harvest.
A good action reaps another.
Man punishes the action, but God the intention.
Talking is easy, action difficult.
Man punishes the action, but God the intention.
Merit consists in action.
It is a bad action that success cannot justify.
Love yourself; get outside yourself and take action. focus on the solution; be at peace.
Faith is action.
Love yourself; get outside yourself and take action.
Postpone not a good action. In Gaelic: Ná cuir an mhaith ar cáirde.
Resolutely in action, gently in manner.
Kettledrum's sound is nice when heard from afar.
It is always a pleasure to greet a friend from afar.
While the mouse in the walls may look from afar at a cat, he does well not to go squeaking about it.
Afar, it enraptures the heart, when near, it rends the gallbladder.
He who stands high is seen from afar.
He may lie safely who comes from afar.
Love is blind but sees afar.
Go softly and look afar.
He may lie boldly who comes from afar.
A well-wisher sees from afar.
It is impossible to add much weight with a single morsel; it is hard to travel afar with a single step.
They who come from afar are prone to lie.
From afar he takes the heart, from nearby the gall-bladder.
Water afar off quenches not fire.
They who come from afar have leave to lie.
Youth may stray afar yet return at last.
A cow from afar gives plenty of milk.
Travelers from afar can lie with impunity.
A fisherman can recognize another fisherman from afar.
They cease to be friends who dwell afar off.
Things coming from afar are most esteemed.
Affairs of the home should not be discussed in the public square.
Home affairs are not talked about on the public square.
An imbecile can manage his own affairs better than a wise man the affairs of other people.
Everyone loves justice in the affairs of another.
He who meddles in others people's affairs will be left with two of three parts.
Man's affairs are evaluated only after his coffin is closed.
Home affairs have their staff, which cannot be brandished by anyone but the head of the house.
Those who pry into other people's affairs will hear what they do not like.
Unwanted meddling in affairs could prove harmful.
We decide our affairs, then we rest them with God.
Don't meddle in others' affairs unless you want your own nose scraped a little.
He is wise that has wit enough for his own affairs.
Women in state affairs are like monkeys in glass-houses.
He who tells his own affairs will hardly keep secret those of others.
Home affairs cannot be told to the public.
Home affairs must not go into the open.
Home affairs are not to be carried on in the public square.
No one is wise in his own affairs.
Who is always prying into other men's affairs, leads a dangerous life.
In the larger affairs the minor are forgotten.
Let ilka herring hing by its ain head.
He that laughs at his ain joke spoils the sport o't.
Oor ain reek's better than ither fowk's fire.
Every man wears his belt his ain gait.
Keep the staff in your ain hand.
He's a proud fox that winna scrape his ain hole.
When ye ca' the dog out o' your ain kail-yaird, dinna ca't into mine.
The tod keeps aye his ain hole clean.
She'll keep her ain side o the hoose, an gang up an doun yours.
He has gotten a bite of his ain bridle.
He's weel worthy o' sorrow that buys it wi' his ain siller.
Let his ain wand ding him.
It is a nasty bird that files its ain nest.
To keep their ain hole clean, the minister's wife should.
The aged in council, the young in action.
Good wine is milk for the aged.
The advice of the aged will not mislead you.
The prosperity of a country is in accordance with its treatment of the aged.
A youngster can ask further than an aged has been.
Aged ginger is more pungent.
A horse aged thirty: don't add any more years.
Whoever is durable, the aged will not be durable.
The young man plays the flute, the middle aged man plays the harpsichord, the old man plays the organ.
The counsel of the aged is sound.
A good archer is not known by his arrows, but his aim.
Aim high in your career but stay humble in your heart.
It is not enough to aim; you must hit.
Don't just aim; hit the target.
If you aim your spear at two fish, both will escape.
Talking without thinking is like shooting without taking aim.
Before shooting, one must aim.
Better to aim at comfort' than at luxury.
Action without thought is like shooting without aim.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away--if you have good aim.
A man does not always aim at what he means to hit.
Too aim is not enough, you must hit!
A hunter who has only one arrow does not shoot with careless aim.
Before firing, you must take aim.
Speaking without thinking is shooting without taking aim.
Aim at a certain issue.
A hunter with one arrow doesn't shoot with a careless aim.
One should first stab a hyena then aim for a lion.
Drinking fake ale is better then drinking water.
To find ale, go into a bar.
Less good than they say for the sons of men is the drinking oft of ale: for the more they drink, the less can they think and keep a watch o'er their wits.
A bird of unmindfulness flutters o'er ale feasts.
Adam's ale is the best brew.
When the ale is in, wit is out.
Plenty know good ale, but don't know much after that.
Carrick for a man, kyle for a coo, cunningham for corn and ale, and a galloway for woo'.
When ale goes in, the wit goes out.
Allah preserve us from ‘If only I'd known!'.
It's easy to say "may allah roast the lion's mother,” when the lion isn't there.
By all means trust in Allah, but tie your camel first.
A crucible for silver and a furnace for gold, but Allah tests the heart.
Allah gives dried beans to eat to him who has no teeth left.
Trust allah, but tie up your camel.
Search yourself, and you will find allah.
Trust in Allah, but tie your camel.
In Morocco never be surprised. If you see a donkey flying, just say Allah is capable of anything.
The mouse fell from the ceiling, and the cat cried "Allah!".
Trust in Allah, but tie your camel first.
People in trouble remember Allah.
Allah gave hunger to one and hunger to another.
If `almost' did not exist, said the woman, "than I would have shot a hare."
Almost never killed a fly.
One with the courage to laugh is master of the world almost as much as the one who is ready to die.
The woman of a man without sorrows is almost a widow.
The wife of a careless man is almost a widow.
Once you lost the trust of someone, it is almost impossible to gain it back.
You can't eat "almost." Even an ant can hurt an elephant.
Almost is not eaten.
Almost everyone is mad but some people can control there madness.
Almost kills no man.
Almost and very nigh saves many a lie.
There are misfortunes in almost every family.
Almost is not eaten.
Almost and "about" prevent lying.
There is one moral duty that moralists underrate almost criminally - the duty to enjoy god's world.
A beggar himself, can he afford to have one asking for alms at his door?
He who gives alms to the poor faces heaven.
The poor ones give their alms in a humble way, the rich man throws them down with contempt.
Alms never make poor.
Too much alms, the saint will be suspicious.
No one ever became poor through giving alms.
Giving alms never lessens the purse.
Alms given openly will be rewarded in secret.
A kind speech and forgiveness is better than alms followed by injury.
Better give nothing than stolen alms.
Alms do not decrease, going to church does not hinder.
No one became poor by giving alms.
Too much alms, the saint will be suspicious.
When thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth.
The little alms are the good alms.
He who asks for alms blushes once; he who refuses, twice.
Ambition never has it's fill.
In the boss's eyes you'll always see ambition.
False ambition serves the neck.
Ambition begets troubles.
Those who sacrifice their conscience to ambition burn a painting to obtain ashes.
A man with too much ambition cannot sleep in peace.
Ambition makes people diligent.
When ambition ends, happiness begins.
Meanness looks through one eye only, ambition is blind.
Ambition spills the sack.
He who opens his heart for ambition, closes it for the rest.
After a rich man gets rich, his next ambition is to get richer.
A man without ambition is like a woman without looks.
Ambition is like hunting for whales – sometimes you lose them.
Caution is the downfall to ambition.
Ambition makes people scorn rustic living.
Ambition and revenge are always hungry.
Ambition and fleas both jump high.
To take ambition from a soldier, is to rob him of his spurs.
Love and ambition admit no fellowship.
Where ambition ends happiness begins.
He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the angel of death.
A woman has the form of an angel, the heart of a serpent, and the mind of an ass.
All skill is in vain when an angel pees in the touchhole of your musket.
Write on one of the devil's horns, "Good angel,” and many will believe it.
Nowadays you must go to heaven to meet an angel.
A solitary man is either a brute or an angel.
An angel on the road, a devil at the fireplace.
A baby is an angel whose wings decrease as his legs increase.
One more good man on earth is better than an extra angel in heaven.
A solitary man is either a beast or an angel.
He that seeks a horse or a wife without fault, has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed.
Young angel, old devil.
The devil seduced Eve in Italian. Eve mislead Adam in Bohemian. The Lord scolded them both in German. Then the angel drove them from paradise in Hungarian.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the Angel of Death.
A young angel, an old devil.
Snow made an angel to the hall.
One should not stand at the foot of a sick person's bed, because that place is reserved for the guardian angel.
It's so bright white like the conscience of an angel.
In borrowing an angel, in repaying a devil.
The Italians are wise before the act, the Germans in the act, the French after the act.
If you want to gather a lot of knowledge, act as if you are ignorant.
God's greatest act was to make one day follow another.
A stupid act entails doing the work twice over.
Who has not done any evil act, his or her heart may be found right.
The broth is cooking, and now we have to act as one.
To know and to act are one and the same.
If you act as good as you look, you'll never shame your family.
Revenge in cold blood is the devil's own act and deed.
The seagull thinks it is an act of kindness to give the fish a lift in the air.
Deliberate before you act.
There are hidden purposes behind an act.
The act of treachery is liked, but not he that does it.
The act itself does not constitute a crime, unless the intent be criminal.
Always assume your guest is tired, cold and hungry, and act accordingly.
Strive to be a person who is never absent from an important act.
Every man must act in the rhythm of his time, such is wisdom.
Act, and you may eat dinner. Think, and you may be dinner.
To know and to act are one and the same.
To act sincerely with the insincere is dangerous.
An evil act runs a thousand miles.
Evil prospers because good men fail to act.
Think globally, act locally.
You cannot make people honest by an act of parliament.
Act like you are an idiot and everyone will respect you.
Don't neglect the consequence of your act.
The best act of generosity is that which is quickly done.
Act in the valley so that you need not fear those who stand on the hill.
To act in anger is like tying up a ship in a storm.
Act quickly, think slowly.
Give the wise man a hint and leave him to act.
An accuser may not act as a defender.
One should act as he may, not as he would like to.
Children act in the village as they have learned at home.
Act aggressive and you will be feared.
Ask advice from everyone, but act with your own mind.
Misfortunes are, in morals, what bitters are in medicine: each is at first disagreeable; but as the bitters act as corroborants to the stomach, so adversity chastens and ameliorates the disposition.
After the act wishing is in vain.
What a man does by the agency of another is his own act.
In the very act of committing an offence.
What I do against my will cannot be said to be my own act.
To be in love and act wisely is scarcely granted to a god.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end. (Strauss, 1994 p. 600)
Think before (you act).
An accuser may not act as a defender.
It is no longer good enough to cry peace, we must act peace, live peace and live in peace.
We must act peace, live peace and live in peace.
You must act as if it is impossible to fail.
Meaning: "Those who are late to act, arrive, or get up tend to miss opportunities already seized by those who came earlier."
Teenagers act like babies if they are not treated like adults.
Slow to speak, but quick to act.
Don't act as if you have something until you really do.
Think thoroughly before you act.
Planting trees is as blessed an act as raising children.
The noisiest drum has nothing but air inside.
In dark weather the devil is in the air.
He who spits in the air will have it fall back on his face.
The miracle is not to fly in the air, or to walk on the water, but to walk on the earth.
A man who has both feet planted firmly in the air can be safely called a liberal.
Our bread today is better than a hundred in the air.
When you see gossamer flying, be sure the air is drying.
He who spits up in the air will get it back on his beard.
The air is no less blue because the blind man doesn't see it.
Many who build castles in the air cannot build a hut on earth.
F air words never fed a friar.
The seagull thinks it is an act of kindness to give the fish a lift in the air.
Humid weather, smelly air.
Roast pigeons don't fly through the air.
Don't stop the way of a bull or of a current of air.
A father's love, for all other is air.
Ill air slays sooner than the sword.
Do not whirl a snake in the air when you have killed it; the ones which remain in their holes see you.
A fish will not live out of water but will prefer air to hot water.
When the glow worm lights her lamp, the air is always very damp.
Air castles are good; now put foundations under them.
The noisiest drum has nothing in it but air.
Fresh air impoverishes doctors.
From the straws in the air we judge of the wind.
He builds castles in the air.
Keep several balls in the air.
However hard a thing is thrown into the air, it always falls to the ground.
Three things give us hardy strength: sleeping on hairy mattresses, breathing cold air, and eating dry food.
He who spits in the air pollutes himself.
Spring is in the air. The sap rises in the spring.
One bird in the hand is worth four in the air.
What is honour? a word. What is that word, honour? Air. (William Shakespeare)
A staigh air an dala cluais 's amach air a' chluais eile (.
The air of the land of israel makes one wise.
Air castles are good; now put foundations under them.
The air of the land of israel makes one wise.
Nuair a thig air duine thig air uile.
An agreement is a kind of debt.
A bad agreement is better than a good lawsuit.
There's no agreement under pressure.
One does not like hot, the other does not like cold; make it tepid to make an agreement.
Setting the conditions before you make an agreement is better than having an argument in the middle of the work.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgment.
A lean agreement is better than a fat lawsuit.
Better a lean agreement than a fat sentence.
Agreement with two people, lamentation with three.
In life, it is always possible to reach agreement in the end.
Force may lead to agreement, but truth will lead to conviction.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgement.
if no agreement, then separation.
Better a lean agreement than a fat lawsuit.
Silence is the sign of agreement.
People who have not secret agreement are beaten by a single club.
A secret agreement enabled people to kill watatua.
Two sparrows upon one ear of corn make ill agreement.
Rare is agreement between beauty and modesty.
May the people wish you well. May your god grant what you are in agreement with.
Better a bony agreement than a fat disagreement.
Where there is negotiation, there is hope for agreement.
If one is eloquent in speech
Even the hills nod in agreement
If one is harsh in words
Even the hills grimace in anger.
A bad agreement is better than a good verdict.
"Pátria Amada” (Beloved Homeland) is the title of the national anthem of Mozambique.
"Namibia, Land of the Brave” is the national anthem of Namibia.
"O Canada” is the title of the national anthem of Canada.
The lyrics of the national anthem of the Czech Republic:.
The Royal Anthem of Jordan is known as "as-Salam al-Malakī al-Urduni” (Music Video)
"Land der Berge, Land am Strome” (Land of mountains, land by the river) is the title of the national anthem of Austria.
"Du gamla, du fria” (Thou ancient, Thou free) is the title of the de facto national anthem of Sweden.
The Swiss Psalm is the national anthem of Switzerland.
The "Deutschlandlied” (Song of Germany is the title of the national anthem of Germany.
"Tavisupleba” is the title of the national anthem of Georgia.
Lightning over the Tatras (Nad Tatrou sa blýska) is the national anthem of Slovakia.
YouTube Slovenian Anthem (with english lyrics)
The national anthem of Iceland is known as as "Ó Guð vors lands” which means "God of our Land”.
Madreterra (Motherland) is the official anthem of Sicily.
The "Marching Song” (Tiến Quân Ca) is the national anthem of Vietnam.
Our Homeland "Ons Heemecht” is the national anthem of Luxembourg.
Courtesy never offended anybody.
The world does not make promises to anybody.
Never help a person who doesn't help anybody else.
The world has not made a promise to anybody.
Like the gardener's dog, that neither eats cabbages himself, nor lets anybody else.
If anybody makes you laugh, it is not always because he loves you.
Discover not your silent money to anybody.
Don't tell a secret to anybody, unless you want the whole world to know it.
Of no sort of good to himself, or to anybody else.
Rain does not make friends with anybody -- it falls on any person it meets outside.
The anvil fears no blows.
When you are an anvil be patient; when a hammer, strike.
The anvil does not fear a good sledge-hammer.
The anvil is not afraid of the hammer.
Every beginning is hard, said the thief, when he began by stealing an anvil.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, strike hard.
A good anvil does not fear the hammer.
A good anvil fears no hammer.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, be strong.
Between hammer and anvil.
When you are an anvil, bear; when you are a hammer, strike.
The anvil fears no blows.
The church is an anvil which has worn out many hammers.
Between the anvil and the hammer.
One must either be the hammer or the anvil.
The anvil is used to noise.
Between the hammer and the anvil.
You are either hammer or anvil.
A great anvil fears not noise.
The anvil fears no blows.
The anvil fears no blow.
If you are the anvil, suffer; if you are the hammer, strike.
Anxiety will not let you die of hunger.
To be prepared is to have no anxiety.
When you work with anxiety during the day, you'll sit up at night with your thoughts.
Give orders, and do it yourself, and you will be rid of anxiety.
Order and do it, and you will be rid of anxiety.
Others have only one anxiety, but I have eight anxieties.
Happiness consists in the absence of anxiety.
Anxiety breaks a man's backbone.
The man with a fixed income lives with anxiety and suffers as the costs of goods fluctuate.
The mountains are never so far apart but the animals find one another.
If love is torn apart you cannot stitch the pieces together again.
Even things that are far apart can meet as one.
Together, it's cramped; apart, it's boring.
Men and women are never placed too far apart to be near.
Break one link and the whole chain falls apart.
Mouth and heart are wide apart.
They are as far apart as Mako is from Jerusalem.
Seven axes lie together, two distaffs apart.
An ape, a priest, and a louse, are three devils in one house.
An ape's an ape, though he wear a gold ring.
An old ape hath an old eye.
An ape is ne'er so like an ape; As when he wears a doctor's cape.
Cunning is the ape of wisdom.
No ape but swears he has the handsomest children.
To go safely through the world you must have the eye of a falcon, the ear of an ass, the face of an ape, the mouth of a pig, the shoulders of a camel, and the legs of a deer.
To have "Heard say” is half a lie.
An old ape never made a pretty grimace.
The higher the ape climbs the more he shows his rump.
Is like having changed three times into an ape and lost every time.
The higher the ape climbs the more he shows his rump.
An ape is an ape, though decked with gold.
How much do we resemble that filthy brute the ape.
Neighbours bring comfort in adversity but only envy in success.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
Adversity brings wisdom.
Adversity is the touchstone of friendship.
Adversity is the foundation of virtue.
A dose of adversity is often as needful as a dose of medicine.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
In the hour of adversity be not without hope.
Friends are known in adversity.
Adversity and loss make a man wise.
Adversity brings knowledge, and knowledge wisdom.
In prosperity think of adversity.
He that considers in prosperity; will be less afflicted in adversity.
Hope is our only comfort in adversity.
Prosperity improves one's personality, adversity cripples it.
It is prosperity that gives us friends, adversity that proves them.
Be frugal in prosperity, fear not in adversity.
Adversity flatters no man.
Adversity is the stuff that shows whether you are what you thought you were.
There is no education like adversity.
Adversity does best discover virtue.
A friend cannot be known in prosperity nor an enemy be hidden in adversity.
Adversity flatters no man.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
Pride in prosperity turns to misery in adversity.
Prosperity gets followers, but adversity distinguishes them.
In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty.
A friend is best found in adversity.
Adversity is easier borne than prosperity forgot.
In adversity is when friendship is proven.
Prosperity makes freinds, adversity tries them.
When you're enjoying prosperity, be wary of adversity.
A stout heart tempers adversity.
In prosperity caution, in adversity patience.
He who does not tire, tires adversity.
Misfortunes are, in morals, what bitters are in medicine: each is at first disagreeable; but as the bitters act as corroborants to the stomach, so adversity chastens and ameliorates the disposition.
Adversity makes a man wise.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
True friends are tested in adversity.
In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty, In time of adversity, not one amongst twenty.
Advise and counsel him; if he does not listen, let adversity teach him.
Adversity exists to be overcome.
There is no education like adversity.
Prosperity makes friends, and adversity tries them. Успех находит друзей, а горе испытывает их.
You need to first experience adversity, before you can handle high praise.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
With nice appearance people want to be deceived.
Appearance cheats.
Appearance can be deceiving. A wolf can disguise himself as a sheep.
Heart rather than appearance.
A dog won't forsake his master because of poverty; a son never deserts his mother because of her homely appearance.
We can be deceived by fair appearance.
Where you're not known, you're judged by your appearance.
When the battle is over you make your appearance.
Nothing reaches the intellect before making its appearance in the senses.
Your appearance is not appropriate for the occasion.
If you don't want to be found out, take the appearance of the people around you.
No reliance can be placed on appearance.
For an ant to have wings would be his undoing.
The ambitious one makes friends with the elephant, then tramples upon the ant.
A coconut shell full of water is a sea to an ant.
The world flatters the elephant and tramples on the ant.
Even the sharpest ear cannot hear an ant singing.
Work like an ant and you'll eat sugar.
The skin of yesteday's sugarcane is a havest to an ant.
Every one hates the red ant on a kola nut because he cannot eat or sell it.
A little water is a sea to an ant.
When an ant says 'ocean', he's talking about a puddle.
The ant had wings to her hurt.
The ant shall never crawl on its knees.
When an ant gets wings, it loses its head.
To be slow in giving ant to refuse, are alike.
Every ant has its ire.
The eyeless ant asked God: Give me eye-lashes.
Be thine enemy an ant, see in him an elephant.
God gives wings to the ant that she may perish the sooner.
With patience and a bit of spittle, the elephant picks up the ant so little.
You can't eat "almost." Even an ant can hurt an elephant.
Even an ant can hurt an elephant.
It is easier to transport an ant hill than exercise authority in a village.
Do not grab your heel until the ant has bitten you.
Water in a coconut shell is like an ocean to an ant.
An ant hole may collapse an embankment.
The ant that destroys a kola nut lives inside it.
It's only the ant that hears the whispers of the sand.
The queen ant feeds on its own ants.
The white ant is small but it creates the great anthill.
Do not grab your heel until the ant has bitten you.
An ant may work its heart out, but it can't make money.
Though your enemy is the size of an ant, look upon him as an elephant.
He who runs from the white ant may stumble upon the stinging ant.
Even the ant hath its anger.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
It will be fool's hardy for the ant to chase an elephant.
The little ant at its hole is full of courage.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
Better to be watched by a wild animal than a nosey man.
If there were no elephant in the jungle, the buffalo would be a great animal.
If you see an animal running in the early morning know that it is running away from something more scarily than the due.
At a hunting expedition you cannot apportion the meat before you kill the animal.
A camel is not a animal and an arab is not a human being.
If men were now to turn their hostility towards the cat, it would not be long before the domestic cat becomes a wild animal.
Every kind of animal can be tamed, but not the tongue of man.
Even if an animal comes to you for protection, you give it sanctuary.
Every animal knows more than you do.
Do not kill an animal unless you intened to eat it.
The injured animal is covered with flies.
The animal that is coming to be killed does not hear the hunter cough.
There is no tree which a panting animal would not cling to.
The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free.
The animal rambling in the stable makes the sleeping ones rise too.
A puppy must not confront a large animal.
If neither animal nor vegetable you be, then mineral you are.
A long-tailed animal doesn't jump over fire.
If you are not an animal you will never find yourself in a trap.
Instead of being near a pagan you rather be near an animal.
The animal hide can best be straightened and smoothened when still fresh.
If you haven't any sheep you won't know that a fox is a wild animal.
Every animal knows more than you do.
Man is the only animal who can be skinned twice.
It is the trapped animal that makes the most noise.
Do not eat before you have fed your animal.
The public is an animal with many heads.
If neither animal nor vegetable you be, then mineral you are. If one finger brought oil it soiled others.
Whoever rides into the flood, either does not own the animal or doesn't value it.
Whomever needs milk, bows to the animal.
One ass calls the other a pack animal.
You attack a horned animal.
Man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave. (Thomas Browne)
The recruit is the fastest animal of the forest.
The lion is a beautiful animal, when seen at a distance.
A puppy must not confront a large animal.
A leopard is such an elusive animal.
The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free.
If human would be an animal Jussi would be the first to put away, said Honkavaari.
If you want apples, you have to shake the trees.
Different men have different opinions; Some like apples, some onions.
You can count the apples on a tree but you can't count the trees from one apple.
The night may be dark, but the apples have been counted.
There is small choice in rotten apples.
There's no making apples of plums.
The nice apples are always eaten by nasty pigs.
Handsome apples are sometimes sour.
How we apples swim! said the horse-turd.
Small choice in rotten apples.
Sodom apples outwardly fair, ashes at the core.
Your neighbor's apples are the sweetest.
Good looking apples are sometimes sour.
Apples taste sweetest when they are going.
Sooner will the tamarisk bear apples.
Small choice in rotten apples.
Talk of the devil and he's sure to appear.
When your fortune improves, the columns of your house appear to be crooked.
Where the pupil is willing; the teachers will appear.
Talk of the Devil, and he is bound to appear.
When the angels appear, the devils run away.
A teacher will appear when the student is ready.
When someone's wealth improves, all of a sudden their house's columns appear to be crooked.
Appear always what you are and a little less.
If deeds are wanting, all words appear mere vanity and emptiness.
Many heroes appear after the war.
Where art is displayed truth does not appear.
When the explorer is ready, the guide will appear.
If a man's heart be impure, all things will appear hostile to him.
When the pupil is ready to learn, a teacher will appear.
It's the orator's wit to make a story appear old.
When friends fall out the truth doth appear.
When the wolf's ears appear, his body is not far off.
Dress up a stick and it does not appear to be a stick.
Strive to be that which you want to appear to be.
Talk of the devil and he'll appear.
Be what you appear to be.
For lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone. The flowers appear on the earth, the time of pruning the vines has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
All things at first appear difficult.
Appear in your own colours, that folk may know you.
If a man's heart be impure, all things will appear hostile to him.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back or a fool from any side.
You may adopt an indirect approach to reach your goal.
Approach heaven with a single stride.
If all snakes live together in one place who would approach them.
Noiseless is the approach of the avenging deities.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back, or a fool from any side.
Approach the perfumer and thou wilt be perfumed.
Never approach a goat from the front, a horse from behind, and a fool from either side.
My bark, once struck by the fury of the storm, dreads again to approach the place of danger.
It flies at our approach but follows us as we retire. [A Shadow, Glory, or Love.].
The one who first shuts up in an argument is from a good family.
Setting the conditions before you make an agreement is better than having an argument in the middle of the work.
Proof rather than argument.
He who strikes the first blow admits he's lost the argument.
The weaker the argument, the stronger the words.
The only thing a heated argument ever produced is coolness.
Where gold avails, argument fails.
You should not call in a cat to settle the argument of two birds.
A single fact is worth a shipload of argument.
An argument is fine only when there is to be a fight.
There's no argument like that of the stick.
An argument derived from the abuse of a thing does not hold good against its use.
The only thing a heated argument ever produced is coolness.
A single fact is worth a shipload of argument.
Whoever argues for the sake of argument is a boor.
One good argument is worth more than ten better ones.
An argument against the man.
A man prolonging his age sees a camel giving birth.
Old age is not a joy, but death is not a gain.
For age and want save while you may, no morning sun lasts a whole day.
Intelligence is in the head, not in the age.
Age is honorable and youth is noble.
Age brings experience, and a good mind wisdom.
An eagle's old age is worth a sparrow's youth.
Old age will not come alone.
Age does not give sense it only makes one go slowly.
Gluttony and vanity grow with age.
Old age devours your youth.
Cherish youth, but trust old age.
Man is like palm-wine: when young, sweet but without strength; in old age, strong but harsh.
The real journey of discovery begins in old age.
Having grey hair because of old age is not a shame.
The devil's wiser more on account of his age than on account of being the devil.
Old age cures us of our youth.
There is no medicine against old age.
Old age is ripeness.
Age and wedlock bring a man to his nightcap.
Age and wedlock tame man and beast.
An hour may destroy what an age was building.
Old age is a hospital that takes in all diseases.
What youth learns, age does not forget.
Care brings on grey hairs, and age without years.
Like blood, like means, and like age, make the happiest marriage.
What one is accustomed to in youth, one does in old age.
Sense doesn't come before age.
If Only youth had knowledge and old age ability.
Gray hair is a sign of age, not of wisdom.
Old age and poverty are wounds that can't be healed.
If youth but knew and age but could do.
Old wine and friends improve with age.
Age and marriage tame the beast.
The age of miracles is past.
Three comforts of old age: fire, tea and tobacco.
Old age is a hundred disorders.
Of all weights, old age is the heaviest.
Old age comes not on its own.
Who is a piece of stick in youth will be a block of wood in old age.
Youth spent freely, old age spent in poverty.
Who fails to show restraint in their youth, will be miserable in their old age.
If you marry you'll suffer in your youth, if you don't marry you'll suffer in your old age.
A lazy youth, a lousy age.
In youth we learn, in old age we understand.
Youth is a folly; maturity, a struggle; old age a remorse.
Old age is not as honorable as death, but most people want it.
A man shows in his youth what he will be in his age.
Old age does not announce itself.
In age, talk; in childhood, tears.
At whatever age a child gets a problem, at the same age she has to shoulder the responsibility.
If you don't use the painstik, the child will never celebrate his age of ascension.
Youth is intoxication without wine; old age, wine without intoxication.
He who becomes blind in his old age does not lose his way.
It is easy to become a monk in one's old age.
We can study until old age and still not finish.
People fool themselves. They pray for a long life but fear old age.
Man fools himself. He prays for a long life, and he fears an old age.
In childhood you are palyful, In youth you are lustful In old age you are feeble, So when will you before God be worshipful?
When an abomination has become of age it becomes a tradition.
The gourd's neck cannot be straightened in it's old age, it can only be broken.
If you want to sit under a shade in your old age plant a tree now.
Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give a bad example.
The deities of one age are the bywords of the next.
Every age wants its playthings.
A diplomat is a man who always remembers a woman's birthday but never her age.
Age before beauty; pearls before swine.
Age lasts; youth devours.
Education is the best provision for old age.
From middle age on, everything of interest is either illegal, immoral or fattening.
Manhood is quite a struggle, old age a regret.
With age comes wisdom.
Youth is a blunder, manhood a struggle, old age a regret.
Where old age is evil, youth can learn no good.
Old age doesn't protect from folly.
The golden age never was the present age.
If youth knew what age would crave, it would both get and save.
Every age has its book.
Old age is a thousand headaches.
Rejoiced in youth, repented in age.
Old age is a disease that you die from.
Old age is no protection against foolishness.
Who honours not age, is unworthy of it.
Women only keep quiet about their age.
The old age of an eagle is better than the youth of a sparrow.
Old age and treachery will overcome youth and skill.
Whilst we drink, prank ourselves, with wenches daily, Old age upon's at unawares doth sally.
Proverbs bear age, and he who would do well may view himself in them as in a looking glass.
The person who does not listen to an elder's advice gets his or her leg broken.
Listening to good advice is the way to wealth.
I gave so much advice that hair grew on my tongue.
Ask advice of an ignorant man and he will think you are his enemy.
One refusing a sibling's advice breaks his arm.
Advice when most needed is least heeded.
The iron never takes advice from the hammer.
When the cart breaks down, advice abounds.
No one will give a pauper bread, but everybody will give him advice.
Never give advice unasked.
He is bad that will not take advice, but he is a thousand times worse that takes every advice.
Let him who will not have advice have conflict.
Giving advice to the ignorant is like the rain falling on muddy ground.
Landing a single punch on your enemy's nose is more satisfying than hearing well-intentioned advice from your elders.
One good punch on your enemy's nose, gives more pleasure than hearing well-meaning advice from your elders.
Beware of the person who gives you advice according to his own interests.
It is advantageous to follow advice, for you will succeed in life.
Good advice is given, good esteem is not given.
He who follows his own advice must take the consequences.
He who steals in order to give to God can only get advice from the devil.
Advice is a stranger; if he's welcome he stays for the night; if not, he leaves the same day.
Though you possess prudence, old man, do not despise advice.
Never trust the advice of a man in difficulty.
There's no advice like father's -- even if you don't take it.
He who can take advice is sometimes superior to those who give it.
Advice is least heeded when most needed.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at the present.
Give neither advice nor salt, until you are asked for it.
A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool.
Advice sharpens a rusty opinion.
If you build according to every man's advice, you will have a crooked house.
Advice is not compulsion.
Advice should precede the act.
Don't give cherries to a pig; don't give advice to a fool.
Never give cherries to pigs or advice to fools.
Ask for advice but do what you think is best.
If advice will not improve him, neither will the rod.
All receive advice. Only the wise profit from it.
Give me money, not advice.
Do not ask advice of the ignorant.
It is easy to give advice when all goes well.
Teeth placed before the tongue give good advice.
When a thing is done, advice comes too late.
It is one word of advice that one needs to give to a wise man, and that word keeps multiplying in his mind.
Time gives good advice.
He who follows his wife's advice will never see the face of god.
You can give a piece of advice, but not good luck along with that.
Ask for advice, and then use your brain.
Ask for advice, then use your head.
The advice of the aged will not mislead you.
A wife's advice is not worth much, but woe to the husband who refuses to take it.
Night is the mother of advice.
Get advice, then make your own decision.
Seek advice but use your own common sense.
As soon as your cart is turned over, everyone rushes to give you advice.
Don't offer me advice; give me money.
Go to friends for advice, woman for love, strangers for charity and relatives for nothing.
Giving advice to a stupid man is like giving salt to a squirrel.
Free advice is seldom cheap.
The wise must be respected, even when the advice they give is not suitable.
There are none so deaf as those who will not hear advice.
What nectar can be drunk with the ears? Good advice.
Good advice is beyond all price.
No one will say, "My father is incontinent." Everyone will say, "He is a man of advice and wisdom."
The advice of a clever woman can ruin a strong town.
It's a bad child who does not take advice.
Ears that do not listen to advice, accompany the head when it is chopped off.
A thorn of experience is worth a wilderness of advice.
We hate those who will not take our advice and despise those who do.
We may give advice, but we cannot give conduct.
Advice to all, security for none.
Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give a bad example.
Less advice and more hands.
Advice, like water, takes the form of the vessel which it is poured into.
Advice, when most needed, is least heeded.
Fools need advice most, but wise men only are the better for it.
The best advice I know in life is don't give too much.
When a thing is done, advice comes too late.
Advice is least heeded when most needed.
Advice to all, security for none.
Sound advice had better be welcome.
Advice given in the midst of a crowd is loathsome.
Ask for your wife's advice and then do the opposite.
Follow the advice of the one who makes you cry, not from the one who makes you laugh.
A good advice is part of the Religion..
Your brother is who gives you a honest advice.
Advice after injury is like medicine after death.
Ask advice of your equals, help of your superiors.
The army is the poison and the people are the water in which the poison is mixed.
If you don't have a brain, join the army; if you don't have rice, use beans instead.
He who eats well is able to face an army.
An army is driven back by courage and not by insults, however many.
The army of the palm tree is its branches.
Even the largest army is nothing without a good general.
An invasion of an army can be resisted but an invasion of ideas can't be resisted.
An army of stags led by a lion would be more formidable than one of lions led by a stag.
Where the army goes there is no grass.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
A word once spoken, an army of chariots cannot overtake it.
It's an ill army when the devil carries the colours.
Army marches on its stomach.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
A headless army fights badly.
Two is an army against one.
Without a general an army is lost.
One pound of learning could require an army of common sense to apply it .
The arrogant army will lose the battle for sure.
No matter how beautiful and well crafted a coffin might look, it will not make anyone wish for death.
If anyone is not willing to accept your point of view, try to see his point of view.
Anyone who plants a tree before they die has not lived in vain.
Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor.
An old man with a torn sleeve never dishonored anyone.
Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old.
You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money.
Anyone who goes hungry for three days will be inclined to steal.
How can you trust anyone who doesn't know how to blush?
Anyone can fancy his bed as a palace.
If you don't want anyone to know, don't do it.
I have never seen anyone go astray who followed along the right way.
You can beat anyone if you have a golden slipper.
During the battle you cannot lend your sword to anyone.
Do not choose for anyone what you do not choose for yourself.
Beautifully decorated plate won't feed anyone.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
Worrying never did anyone any good.
Anyone who lives will know trying times.
Your wife and your wheelbarrow are two things that you should never lend to anyone.
Yakov's magpie started chattering the same thing about anyone.
A few germs never hurt anyone.
Don't let anyone know about your silent [secret] money.
Home affairs have their staff, which cannot be brandished by anyone but the head of the house.
It's not good for anyone to be alone.
The rain does not recognize anyone as a friend; it drenches all equally.
Anyone can be trapped.
Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor.
Consult anyone, even your knees.
Anyone can buy a good house, but good neighbors are priceless.
The turtle lays thousands of eggs without anyone knowing, but when the hen lays an egg, the whole country is informed.
Anyone can be polite to a king, but it takes a gentleman to be polite to a beggar.
Anyone who has sold an old lady, knows the price of an old man.
Where your mother is born, you can't call anyone a child.
Anyone can start a rumor, but none can stop one.
Never advise anyone to go to war or to marry.
He who is of no use to himself is of no use to anyone else.
Anyone who is satisfied to stand still should not complain when others pass him.
Anyone who teases you loves you.
Accidents may happen to anyone.
Anyone can tame a shrew but he who has her.
If you don't want anyone to take your place, don't ever show that you're frightened.
Never share a foxhole with anyone braver than you are.
Anyone can make a spoon, but not everyone can make the handle.
Possessions dwindle: I mourn their loss. But I mourn the loss of time much more, for anyone can save his purse, but none can win back lost time.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
Anyone can find fault, and those who find the most have the most.
What reveals itself to me ceases to be mysterious for me alone if I unveil it to anyone else, he hears mere words which betray the living sense Profanation, but never revelation.
Crawling on hands and knees has never prevented anyone from walking upright.
No matter who has died, I want to sing. But when I die, anyone can sing.
You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money.
A saint that cannot cure anyone has few disciples.
When the angels arrive the demons leave.
The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass.
When the angels arrive, the devils leave.
To run is not neccessarily to arrive.
If someone says "there is a wedding ceremony in the clouds,” then the women would soon arrive with their ladders.
It is not enough to run, one must arrive and know when one has arrived.
A full sail helped him to arrive.
If you urge the donkey on, you'll arrive late, if you let the donkey amble, you'll arrive early.
Let us hurry and finish up the food; when visitors arrive, the meal will be over.
Those who arrive to the spring first, drink the purest water.
To talk much and arrive nowhere is the same as climbing a tree to catch a fish.
Those who arrive to the spring first, drink the purest water.
Despise not a snail for its slow and struggling movement; it has a destination and with time it shall arrive.
Better to travel hopefully than to arrive.
Though trouble be lame, it will arrive.
Vultures arrive at the place where the goat is slaughtered.
It is better to travel hopefully than to arrive.
Meaning: "Those who are late to act, arrive, or get up tend to miss opportunities already seized by those who came earlier."
To run is not necessarily to arrive.
It's better to arrive on time than to be invited.
There's no better sauce than a good appetite.
Ones neighbours problems, does not induce one to lose their appetite over them.
A good appetite needs no sauce.
A good appetite does not want sauce.
A waiting appetite kindles many a spite.
Appetite comes in eating.
Who works in sweat will eat with appetite.
Don't have the appetite of Miss Julia who, when she had meat, wanted chick peas.
For a good appetite there is no hard bread.
The appetite comes during a meal.
Excess of delight palls the appetite.
To take revenge on an enemy, give him an elephant -- first he must thank you for the gift, and then the elephant's appetite will deplete your enemy's resources.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
He who restrains his appetite avoids debt.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
The poor looks for food and the rich man for appetite.
Nothing improves the taste of pasta more than a good appetite.
Appetite comes while eating.
Nothing stimulates the appetite like little on the plate.
The death that will kill a man begins as an appetite.
The gluttony of the monk and the appetite of the priest.
Taking a bite of the bread restores your appetite.
The appetite comes with eating.
Appetite comes with eating.
Eating brings on your appetite.
A good appetite needs no sauce.
The appetite grows while one eats;.
An appetite is a true companion to plain bread.
In old age your strength decreases and your appetite increases.
Abundance breeds arrogance.
The weed of arrogance grows on a dunghill.
Dine with arrogance, sleep with shame.
Arrogance is not gentlemanly.
Arrogance diminishes wisdom.
Arrogance is a weed that grows mostly on a dunghill.
Riches cause arrogance; poverty, meekness.
Love and arrogance don't go together.
Arrogance is intolerable.
Arrogance costs a fortune.
The weed of arrogance grows on a dunghill.
A cold April the barn will fill.
April showers bring May flowers.
Women are as fickle as April weather.
In April, tons of water.
April: shuffle the pigsty.
When April is rainy, and May is windy, the year will be fruitful.
During April rainfalls the pig gets butchered, the oxen gets fattened and the sheep laughs.
When the olive tree blooms during April, olives are harvested with barrels, when it blossoms in June, they are harvested in handfuls.
April and May make meal for the whole year.
April is the cruellest month.
April weather, woman's love, rose-leaves, dice, and card-luck, change every moment.
Better April showers than the breadth of the ocean in gold.
Believe in women as in the weather in April.
April rains for men; May, for beasts.
The child's bottom and April weather arre not to be trusted.
On april 8th, the cuckoo's call must be heard.
A tree that doesn't flower in April, won't flower at all.
April is the time for sweet sleep, don't take things off, don't put things on.
April, as you see me; May, as I stay; June, as I am; by July, let everything fly.
Whoever goes on foot during April and May, goes on horseback the rest of the year.
Timely rain cheers my soul; water and sun during seeding, inspires hope; the rains of April and May are late at night; then the good mornings, will be the wealth of the houses.
God save us from the end of March and the beginning of April.
If you prune in April you'll fill your barrels not with wine, but with water.
While there's nothing to do in April, let out the herd to pasture with all the sheep.
Kind master, give me hay for all of April.
April showers bring forth May flowers.
March'll search ye, April try ye May'll tell, whether live or die ye.
On April 8th, the cuckoo's call must be heard. If it isn't, either the cuckoo is dead or is going to die.
Mother sets aside and the cat eats.
Set aside emergencies and help a woman giving birth.
A woman is not a harmonica that you put aside when you have used it.
Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear.
A woman is like a blanket: If you cover yourself with it, it bothers you; if you throw it aside you will feel the cold.
Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear.
He who turns aside avoids danger.
It is not easy suddenly to cast aside a fancy long indulged in.
Me do not know hard firewood, but only lops people put aside hard tasks and devote themselves only to easy ones.
Before the bending arm straighten, or before the straighten arm bends.
If you dip your arm into the picklepot let it be up to the elbow.
Keep your broken arm inside your sleeve.
All weapons of war cannot arm fear.
Yorkshire born and Yorkshire bred, strong in the arm and weak in the head.
A broken sleeve holdeth the arm back.
Money wins the battle, not the long arm.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
The best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm.
His tongue says little, but powerful is his right arm.
Kiss any arm you cannot break, a and pray to God to break it.
A double jointed arm follows the leg action.
As long as you happen to put your hand in a container full of pickles, might as well dip your whole arm in the container.
Better something on the arm than all in the stomach.
If it weren't for my need to fill my belly, I would have gilded my arm.
He whose throat is longer than his arm must pray constantly for gods' protection.
All the armament of Sicily won't arm fear.
Bed rest cures a hurt leg and a sling heals a hurting arm.
The money paid, the workman's arm is broken.
According to the arm be the bleeding.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
No man ever wore a scarf as warm as his daughter's arm around his neck.
Two watermelons can not be held under one arm.
God gives nothing to those who keep their arms crossed.
Kings have long arms.
Money and friendship break the arms of justice.
Princes have long arms.
Capacious as the sleeve of a monk and patient as the priest with his arms across his chest.
Arms and money require good hands.
When you die, your sister's tears will dry as time goes on, your widow's tears will end in another's arms, but your mother will mourn you until the day she dies.
Words can kill before arms.
Thou shalt never sleep in the arms of a sorceress, lest she should lock thy limbs.
The mouth makes debts, but the arms pay.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: climb a tree without arms.
Happiness opens the arms and closes the eyes.
Arms carry peace.
Threats are arms for the threatened.
He that fights with silver arms is sure to overcome.
A lord without riches is a soldier without arms.
The master has long arms, but they don't reach heaven.
None reaches further than his arms reach.
He that keeps not his arms in time of peace will have none in time of war.
Justice and fire, keep them at arms length.
Arms, women, and books should be looked at daily.
In hawks, hounds, arms, and love, for one pleasure a thousand pains.
The bad head does not give rest to the legs, and the cunning ass does not give rest to the legs, arms, or head.
Coming back with arms longer than legs.
Their harms, our arms.
Know you not that kings have long arms?
By valor and arms. [Virtute et armis.].
He ate one fig and he thought the autumn had come.
They ate our food, and forgot our names.
When they gave the donkey flowers to smell, he ate them.
He is as good a Catholic as Duke Alva's dog; who ate flesh in Lent.
I ate honey in my childhood, and its sweetness is still in my tooth.
The witch kills "he ate and he did not give me”, but she does not kill, "he gave me too little.”.
The miller's pigs are fat but it wasn't all mouter they ate.
If a rich man ate a snake, they would say it was because of his wisdom.
Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache.
The mouth which ate pepper is the one which pepper affected.
Ate and praised is better than ate and was silence.
They planted so we ate, and we plant so they would eat.
Our parents planted so we ate, and we plant for our children to eat.
Don't stop sowing just because the birds ate a few seeds.
He who seeks his goat with the man who ate it, is certain not to find it.
The mouth who ate the seeds asks, ‘now what shall I plant?'.
If fools ate no bread, corn would be cheap.
In the end it will be known who ate the bacon.
If a poor man ate it, they would say it was because of his stupidity.
[Theу/we] Ate and drank and make merry. Then [they/we] counted and shed tears.
To a quick question, give a slow answer.
Not all words require an answer.
To 'get out of my house.' or 'what do you want with my wife?' there is no answer.
An answer without a question signals guilt without question.
If you really want honesty, then don't ask questions you don't really want the answer to.
An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.
The right answer to a fool is silence.
It is not what you are called, but what you answer to.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
Who says little has little to answer for.
No answer is also an answer.
To a hasty question a leisurely answer.
When a woman knows no more how to answer, she must be dried up.
You must answer the devil in his own language.
A woman's answer is never to seek.
He that exceeds his commission must answer for it at his own cost.
It's a good answer that knows when to stop.
It is a good answer which knows when to stop.
One idiot can ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
Even silence is an answer.
A soft answer calms the wrath.
Silence is sometimes the answer.
Who has done evil will answer for evil.
The forest will answer you in the way you call to it.
Fools ask questions that wise men cannot answer.
Silence is the answer to many things.
Ask a silly question and you get a silly answer.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
A proverb does not answer itself.
Silence is the best answer to the stupid.
Sometimes the only thing more dangerous than a question is an answer.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
A bird does not sing because he has the answer to something, he sings because he has a song.
A man of honor will feel ashamed by a single question to which he does not know the answer.
An answer that does not resolve a quarrel makes a thousand new ones.
Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will be like him yourself.
In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter.
Don't promise something when you are full of joy; don't answer letters when you are full of anger.
Never answer a letter while you are angry.
When death knocks at your door, you must answer.
A fool can ask more questions in a minute than a wise man can answer in an hour.
Answer a fool according to his folly.
Don't knock at a dead man's door and expect an answer.
It's not every question that deserves an answer.
The shortest answer is doing.
If you want a thing done, go. If not, send. The shortest answer is doing.
Fourty Two is the answer.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
Ask a silly question and you get a silly answer.
Conversation is like making love; the man is the question, the woman the answer, and the union of both will bear fruit.
The best answer comes from the man who isn't angry.
Hear one man before you answer; hear several before you decide.
No is a good answer when given in time.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about.
The best answer to anger is silence.
One fool may ask more questions than seven wise men can answer.
Love without return is like a question without an answer.
A fool can ask more questions than seven wise men can answer.
If a woman doesn't know what she has to answer then the sea is dry.
Like question, like answer.
Like greeting, on arrival, like answer.
Give equal in reply, answer according to the call.
I hae a scottish tongue in my head – if they speak i'se answer.
An answer in a word.
In every woman there is a Queen. Speak to the Queen and the Queen will answer.
Love the one who loves you, answer the one who calls you.
To every answer you can find a new question.
Every question has an answer.
If one has nothing to answer, it is best to shut up.
Every answer can result in a new question.
Wise people can't answer the most foolish questions.
A civil question deserves a civil answer.
I know nothing about it, I haven't seen it; that is the best answer.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
There is no answer for God out of my house, and What have you to do with my wife?
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about. (Strauss, 1994 p. 221)
Silence is the best answer to the stupid.
If a woman doesn't know what she has to answer then the sea is dry.
It's not what you call me, but what I answer to.
When death knocks at your door, you must answer.
Silence is often the best answer.
Beware of the anger of a patient man.
Anger hears no counsel.
Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will spare yourself one hundred days of tears.
Anger without power is folly.
A soft answer turns away anger.
The hot sun melts away the snow; when anger comes, does wisdom go.
Anger is the only thing to put off until tomorrow.
Kill your anger while it is small.
Postpone today's anger until tomorrow.
Anger is a bad counselor.
Even a small mouse has anger.
The anger of the prudent never shows.
Wise man's anger never comes out.
To spend the night in anger is better than to spend it repenting.
The anger of a woman is mighty and the devil's trickery weak.
To get rid of anger, first weed out the bitter roots.
Anger of the mind is poison to the soul.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow.
The anger is not warrantable that has seen two suns.
Anger is often more hurtful than the injury that caused it.
Anger punishes itself.
Let your anger set with the sun and not rise again.
May your anger set with the sun and not rise again with it.
Drunkenness and anger speak truthfully.
Drunkenness and anger, 'tis said tell the truth.
One word spoken in anger may spoil an entire life.
When anger comes, wisdom goes.
Anger is as a stone cast into a wasp's nest.
Anger has no eyes.
Even a fly has its anger.
A lover's anger is short-lived.
Anger increases love.
When a man finds that he was wrong to have refused to eat, he should leave his anger and play a harp to call for harmony.
Anger is the mother of treachery.
A person who is outwardly calm has anger raging inside.
When love is given, love should be returned, anger gives no life.
Anger is a short madness.
Forbear a quarrel with a friend to move: anger breeds hatred; concord sweetens love.
There is no point of nurturing an anger inside us. Just let it go.
Who stands up with anger will sit down with loss.
He who restrains his anger overcomes his greatest enemy.
In anger a man becomes dangerous to himself and to others.
Do not allow anger to poison you.
Anger excites.
If patience hides something, anger won't search and get.
In anger there is no intelligence.
He who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
Do not create in anger what you lack in reason.
In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter.
Anger is always more harmful than the insult that caused it.
Don't promise something when you are full of joy; don't answer letters when you are full of anger.
A regular fighter who discords peace is bound to be fought by his own anger.
The strongest person among men is not he who fights everyone but is he who controls is anger.
Anger against a brother is felt on the flesh, not in the bone.
A good remedy for anger is delay.
Avoid anger and you will not sin.
Anger dies quickly in a good man.
Beware the anger of a patient man.
Anger begins with folly, and ends with repentance.
Women are like wasps in their anger.
God gives his anger by weight, but his pity without measure.
Anger edges valor.
Anger is a short madness.
Anger is shortlived in a good man.
A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Anger can't stand, without a strong hand.
The best answer to anger is silence.
If a man would know what he is, let him anger his neighbours.
Love's anger is fuel to love.
He who conquers his anger has conquered an enemy.
To act in anger is like tying up a ship in a storm.
Anger ends in cruelty.
Great anger is more destructive than the sword.
Anger can be an expensive luxury.
Better a night full of anger than a night full of repentance.
Anger is a bad counsellor.
Postpone today's anger till tomorrow.
He who is slow to anger is longer getting over it.
Anger cannot stand without a strong hand.
The mountain makes the horse suffer, anger makes oneself suffer.
Anger is the thorn in the heart.
Anger is a bad adviser.
He who gets up in anger, sits down with a loss.
Anger and hate hinder good counsel.
Anger is a short madeness.
Even the ant hath its anger.
Fire will not put out fire. Anger is not appeased by anger.
Do not throw the arrow which will return against you.
An arrow can be pulled out of a wound, but a hurtful word stays forever in your heart.
The eagle was killed by an arrow made from its own feathers.
Draw not thy bow before thy arrow be fixed.
One little arrow does not kill a serpent.
Do not shoot a glass arrow into a painted deer.
It is easy to dodge a spear that comes in front of you but hard to avoid an arrow shot from behind.
It is easy to dodge the arrow of an enemy, but difficult to avoid the spear of a friend.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
It is too late to cry "Hold hard!” when the arrow has left the bow.
You can best shoot an eagle with an arrow made from its own feathers.
One arrow does not bring down two birds.
A pig's tail will never make a good arrow.
There are many good moccasin tracks along the trail of a straight arrow.
Harsh words hurt more than a poisonous arrow.
If an arrow goes into a forest it is not lost.
A single arrow is easily broken, but ten in a bundle aren't.
A wild goose may be worth a hundred pieces of gold, but you first have to spend three pieces of gold to buy an arrow.
You make a new arrow by comparing it to an old one.
Deer-hunter, waste not your arrow on the hare.
Four things come not back: the spoken word, the spent arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
Kill two vultures with one arrow.
The bird will not fly into your arrow.
When you shoot an arrow of truth, dip its point in honey.
Faster than an arrow.
I taught him archery everyday, and when he got good at it he throw an arrow at me.
Four things come not back -- the spoken word, the sped arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
An arrow once shot is hard to get back.
Like wood, like arrow.
A man without money is a bow without an arrow.
A hunter who has only one arrow does not shoot with careless aim.
For a jest one should not take the arrow out of the quiver.
The place to use the club and the above arrow are not the same.
The pen wounds deeper than an arrow.
Not every sort of wood is fit to make an arrow.
A hunter with only one arrow does not shoot carelessly.
The enemy's cold heart summons the arrow to it.
A trick is not an arrow.
For a jest one should not take the arrow out of the quiver.
A hunter with one arrow doesn't shoot with a careless aim.
Even as the archer loves the arrow that flies, so too he loves the bow that remains constant in his hands.
An arrow once shot never comes back.
Anything worth doing is worth doing for money.
Republicans will do anything for the poor except get off their backs.
The stranger has big eyes but he doesn't see anything.
Not having enough is like not having anything.
People who do not break things first will never learn to create anything.
Do not run into debt with a rich man, or promise anything to a poor one.
Never ask God to give you anything; ask Him to put you where things are.
I will do anything except bear the responsibility of guarding a house that has two doors.
Since we didn't say anything, he thought he could do whatever he wanted to.
The world has not promised anything to anybody.
Never do anything standing that you can do sitting, or anything sitting that you can do lying down.
The woman who tells her age is either too young to have anything to lose or too old to have anything to gain.
Anything with scales counts as fish.
A mad dog bites anything except itself.
He who never learns anything never forgets anything.
If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all.
Fire will burn itself out if it did not find anything to burn.
Never ask God to give you anything; ask Him to put you where.
A little of anything isn't worth a pin; but a wee bit of sense is worth a lot.
Anything will fit a naked man.
Be sure not to owe anything to the rich, and don't lend anything to the poor.
A bachelor and a dog can do anything.
A person always breaking off from work never finishes anything.
A lizard that fell from the top of a tree wastes its time looking back to where it fell from; if there was anything good the lizard deserved, it could not have missed it while it was there on top of the tree.
No one takes away anything with him.
You can say anything to a man with a full stomach.
It is never too late to offer anything that is good.
Even the clock shows the time without knowing anything.
The woman who always complains and is never satisfied with anything is like an annoying flea on the foot.
If you didn't catch anything when fishing, then a crab is a fish.
An empty stomach will not listen to anything.
I never ask God to give me anything; I only ask him to put me where things are.
The bullet that doesn't hit anything still makes a noise.
One who thinks that money can do everything is likely to do anything for money.
A wealthy man can afford anything except a conscience.
In Morocco never be surprised. If you see a donkey flying, just say Allah is capable of anything.
The Irish ignore anything they can't drink or punch.
In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter.
Never do anything that you want to remain a secret.
If you have never done anything evil, you should not be worrying about devils knocking at your door.
Love is an eye that doesn't see anything.
When you're undressed then you're ready for anything.
Anything with a beginning also has an end.
A person who is always looking at the sky will never discover anything on the ground.
When you buy friends with anything other than friendship, they do not stay bought long.
A fellow can do anything if he lists.
Alcohol will preserve anything but a secret.
Call me anything but late for dinner.
If you don't know what to do, don't do anything.
Do not tell a friend anything you would conceal from an enemy.
A beautiful face is admired even when its owner doesn't say anything.
If you don't make mistakes you don't make anything.
Whoever invented work must not have had anything to do.
Never rub your eye with anything but your elbow.
The one who does not risk anything does not gain nor lose.
"love one another” said christ, but he didn't mention anything about preferences.
He who wants too much doesn't catch anything.
He may eat it or not, he wont get anything else.
One can do anything, only will is needed.
Anything big is small at the beginning.
The cure for anything is salt water - sweat, tears, or the sea.
The Church never gives anything away.
The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything.
If you have nothing to lose, you can try anything.
Princes keep good reckoning, they never lose anything.
One never gets more than one's money's worth of anything.
You don't learn anything from buying, but you do from selling.
If you follow god, you won't find anything.
Paper is patient - you can put anything on it.
He who is only right hasn't really anything.
He who never has enough, never has anything.
Excess in anything becomes a vice.
We can accustom ourselves to anything.
Everyone talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
Who by himself can do anything, do not wait for others to do.
Laziness likes to justify itself for not doing anything.
The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything.
If I put anything down it is snatched away; if I do more than is expected, who will repay me?
If you want anything well done, do it yourself.
Anything good in life is either illegal, immoral or fattening.
It is so unlikely to obtain anything from this person that even a smidgen is a win.
Laziness likes to justify itself for not doing anything because it cannot do everything.
He who has nothing cannot let go of anything.
Anything that is heavy can be light if we put our resources together.
"He who does not go forward, loses ground." or "He who does not accomplish anything, is a failure/has shortcomings.”.
Let him attack who will; the strong wait.
Ants can attack with a grain of rice.
Don't wait for an anthill to build up in your mushroom better attack its origin sooner than later.
Attack is the best form of defence.
When one is taking a chicken from its roost, the hen is bound to attack with at least its claws.
Even food can attack.
A strong attack is half the battle won.
A ship cloaks in order to attack.
In order to succeed, we attack.
Attack is the best form of defense.
When the lion gets old even flies attack him.
If a dog bites you, you don't attack it but you attack its owner.
If you befriend a mosquito it will still attack you at night.
When your enemies attack, bathe in their blood.
Marriage is the opposite to a fever attack; it begins very hot and ends very cold.
The best defence is to attack.
The attack tames the beast.
I need not fear my enemies because the most they can do is attack me. I need not fear my friends because the most they can do is betray me. But I have much to fear from people who are indifferent.
You attack a horned animal.
Those who attack, though they die in the attempt.
Attack is the best defense.
An elephant fears attack from several sides.
The highest art is the art of living an ordinary life in an extraordinary manner.
The art is not in making money, but in keeping it.
To be a fool at the right time is also an art.
Love is the art of making exceptions.
Art is the illusion of spontaneity.
It is a great art to laugh at your own misfortune.
Arabic is a language, Persian is a delicacy and Turkish is an art.
I kiss thee hide, because thou art to be a wine-bag.
With art and knavery we live through half the year; with knavery and art we live through the other.
If pride were an art, how many doctors we should have.
I do not tell thee what thou art, thou wilt tell it thyself.
Where art is displayed truth does not appear.
When you are pepper, I am mustard; when thou art a needle, I am a knife.
Rise never at nighttime, except thou art spying.
Better be proficient in one art than a smatterer in a thousand.
All the art lies in making the best of a bad market.
Art is the right hand of nature.
Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.
He who has an art has everywhere a part.
"Fie upon thee, how black thou art!" said the kettle to the saucepan.
Art is long and life is short.
Art is art, even though unsuccessful.
Saving is a greater art than gaining.
Practice not your art, and it will soon depart.
Art holds fast when all else is lost.
With time and art the leaf of the mulberry-tree becomes satin.
Thou art a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
Art has no enemy but ignorance.
Don't pass judgement on a work of art if you don't know how to create it.
Every art requires the open person.
We have no art. We do everything as well as we can.
The art of doing business lies more in paying than in buying.
Without favour, art is like a windmill without wind.
Art has no enemy except ignorance.
Thou too art mortal.
To whiten ivory with dye is to spoil nature by art.
Horace, Of the Art of Poetry, Wentworth Dillon's trans, line 212. (19 BC)
Patience is the art of hoping.
The best art conceals art.
And Nathan said unto David: And Nathan said unto David: "Thou art the man."
I have to live in Finland. I could never leave this land; it would make the end of me and would mean death to my art.
Politics is art of promises.
To be a fool at the right time is an art.
The art of pleasing is the art of deceiving.
A bold attempt is half success.
Attempt nothing beyond your strength.
The attempt exceeds the ability of one, not of a multitude.
The first attempt is the most difficult.
A bold attempt is half of success.
Without knowing a way thoroughly at day time, never attempt to pass it at night.
Those who attack, though they die in the attempt.
A wish is a desire without an attempt.
No one falls low unless he attempt to climb high.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
When the apple is ripe it will fall.
The rotten apple injures its neighbour.
If there is no apple one eats a little carrot.
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
You can count the apples on a tree but you can't count the trees from one apple.
A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple.
Apple blossoms are beautiful, but rice dumplings are better.
One who doesn't appreciate the apple, won't appreciate the orchard.
Who has tasted a sour apple, will have the more relish for a sweet one.
Whoever has bitten a sour apple will enjoy the sweet one all the more.
Many a rose-cheeked apple is rotten at the core.
The apple falls on the head that's under it.
One of the two partners always bites the best part of the apple.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Sometimes it is better to give your apple away, than to eat it yourself.
Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache.
A person peeing right against a wall most certainly has an adam's apple.
One rotten apple in the basket infects the whole.
For an apple and an egg.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
Don't pluck the apple while it is green; when it is ripe it will fall of itself.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple.
A pear tree cannot bear an apple.
When the apple gets ripe, it's likely to fall.
What's the good of a fair apple if it has a worm in its heart?
One rotten apple can spoil a lot of good ones.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away--if you have good aim.
One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel.
A rotten apple injures its companions.
An apple does not fall far from the tree.
The apple does not fall far from its tree.
A red apple invites stones.
A rock offered by a friend is like an apple.
Things for children, apple, almonds and hazel nuts.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
One rotten apple spoils the other.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
The old monkey gets the apple.
No apple tree is immune from worms.
The apple doesn't fall far away from the apple-tree.
There are many who throw stones at a red apple.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
An apple a day turns away illness.
It is best to bite into the sour apple.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
The apple never falls far form the tree.
The apple falls not so far away from the apple-tree.
To a Vermonter, a Yankee is someone who eats apple pie for breakfast.
A seed hidden in the heart of an apple is an orchard invisible.
An apple does not fall far from the tree.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
An apple does not fall far from the tree.
Better an apple pie than apple blossom.
Sweet is the apple when the keeper is away.
The grown-up pays attention to what you are doing; the child sees beyond that.
A dog that barks all the time gets little attention.
No attention is paid to him who is always complaining.
Do not weaken the attention of him who is occupied.
If you would be a good judge, pay attention to what everyone says.
You pay attention to your fek'lhr and I will pay attention to mine.
The guest who seeks special attention muddies the host's tea.
Love and attention make all things grow.
When a child is asleep a mother's attention is on the child's stomach.
If you don't want to attract attention, don't start something new.
When reading, don't let a single word escape your attention; one word may be worth a thousand pieces of gold.
One should pay attention to an old man's words. One should submit oneself to his protection.
Eight [homonym 'careful attention' and 'eight'] is more than a thousand.
Pay attention when an old dog is barking.
A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks, an ugly girl by the help of a mirror.
A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks.
The fat buffalo will attract the lean buffalo.
Little things attract light minds.
No matter how hidden a force is, it will attract some kind of resistance.
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.
A kind word can attract even the snake from his nest.
There are three things that attract: a house for its inhabitants, a woman for her spouse, and a bargain for a customer.
It is better to attract two birds to the nest than one.
If you don't want to attract attention, don't start something new.
Showy clothes attract most.
Three things that attract.
Throw out a brick to attract a jade.
A beggar himself, can he afford to have one asking for alms at his door?
By asking for the impossible we obtain the possible.
Asking questions is not silly.
A leopard is chasing us, and you are asking me, "Is it a male or a female?"
Many things are lost for want of asking.
Clean your own yard first before asking others to clean theirs.
Asking costs little.
By asking the impossible you will get the best.
Asking is the sister of knowing.
Give at first asking what you safely can; 'tis certain gain to help an honest man.
Asking is no sin, and being refused is no tragedy.
A judge and a stomach do their asking in silence.
They don't hit you in the nose for asking.
An udara fruit that falls on the side of the road is asking to be eaten.
The one who persists in asking question he learn the death of his mother.
Nicknames are used in case the Devil comes asking for you.
There's no use asking the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
The camel asking for horns lost also his ears.
Nothing is lost for asking.
Better to own it than asking your brother for it.
Asking question is the only way to learn.
They give, to find a pretext for asking.
Lose nothing for want of asking.
He who is ashamed of asking, is ashamed of learning.
Vodka is the aunt of wine.
Hunger is not your aunt.
They call their aunt only when her cucumbers are ripe.
He whose mother is naked is not likely to clothe his aunt.
If my aunt had a beard, this man would be my uncle.
If my aunt had been a man, she'd have been my uncle.
If the father marries the aunt, he's an uncle.
Words will not do for my aunt, for she does not put faith even in deeds.
Visit your aunt, but not every day of the year.
Take to your aunt what you've brought to me.
Water in august: oil and ferment.
August rain brings oil, honey and must.
Cook in June and July, dish it out in August and September.
To ward off the boredom of life, eat snails in May and fish in August.
In August the lambs are slaughtered.
The mature fruit is cooked in August and dished out in September.
Whoever wants a good must should hoe the vineyard in August.
From September to August drink the old wine and leave the must to age.
When it rains in August, it rains honey and wine.
Dry August, chestnuts at every step.
January chicks fill the hen house, August chicks fill the baskets.
He who comes from hell is not afraid of hot ashes.
The glow soon becomes ashes.
Ashes always fly back in the face of him who throws them.
Those who sacrifice their conscience to ambition burn a painting to obtain ashes.
The wood is burnt, but the ashes are a nuisance.
Today it may be a fire, tomorrow it will be ashes.
Under white ashes lie often glowing embers.
Under white ashes there is glowing coal.
Lay on more wood; ashes give money.
Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
Who wants fire, let him look for it in the ashes.
Even in the ashes there will be a few sparks.
Be merry, Shrovetide, for to-morrow thou wilt be ashes.
He gathers up ashes and scatters flour.
Where there was fire, ashes remain.
You don't have to put out the fire when all is ash.
What you lose in the fire, you will find in the ashes.
Every kind of wood is grey when they are reduced to ashes.
Ashes will always blow back into the face of the thrower.
Fire does not make fire, only ashes.
Firewood yields ash.
One with more firewood than you, has more ash than you.
Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them.
He who burns down his house knows why ashes cost a fortune.
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, if the Lord doesn't get you, the devil must.
Dead news, like dead love, has no phoenix in its ashes.
It may be a fire today, but tomorrow it will be only ashes.
Fire could leave ashes behind.
Life, like a fire, begins in smoke and ends in ashes.
If you want fire, look for it in the ashes.
Out of the ashes into the fire.
When ashes cole darg sleep in dey.
What is lost in the fire must be sought in the ashes.
A fire is nourished by its own ashes.
Man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave. (Thomas Browne)
Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them.
He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes.
It may be a fire today - tomorrow it will be ashes.
He who has no bread has no authority.
If you wish to know what a man is, place him in authority.
There's neither success nor efficiency without authority and laws.
A traveler may lie with authority.
Authority has no partner.
It is easier to transport a termite hill than have authority in a village.
What is decided by legitimate authority is not resented by the subjects.
It is easier to transport an ant hill than exercise authority in a village.
Authority is in generosity.
He who wants authority should never be a visitor.
Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge.
A traveller may lie with authority.
Old men and travellers may lie by authority.
Who gives the bread lays down the authority.
Travellers lie by authority.
Whatever the man in authority said, it was not pleasant.
Whatever the man in authority said, it was not right.
Autumn days come quickly like the running of a hound on the moor.
A man's heart changes as often as does the autumn sky.
A whore in spring, a nun in autumn.
There are seven different kind of weather in one autumn night.
Autumn is the hush before winter.
Chickens are counted in autumn.
An autumn day feeds a whole winter.
True friends are like diamonds, precious and rare; false ones like autumn leaves, found everywhere.
If you do not sow in the spring you will not reap in the autumn.
Chickens are to be counted in the autumn.
A fever in autumn is either long lasting or mortal.
One [should] count chicks in autumn.
Avarice is never satisfied.
Avarice increases with wealth.
Avarice commonly occasions injury to the person who displays it.
Avarice is the root of all evil.
Gambling is the son of avarice and the father of despair.
Poverty craves many things, but avarice more.
It is not want but abundance that makes avarice.
Poverty wants many things, and avarice all.
Avarice bursts the bag.
Gambling is the son of avarice and the father of despair.
Your tongue rins aye before your wit.
A sorrowfu' heart's aye dry.
Bastard brood are aye proud.
There is aye life for a living man.
He that deals in dirt has aye foul fingers.
Marry in May, rue for aye.
He that would live for aye, must eat sage in May.
Ye're like a bad liver--the last day there's aye maist to do wi' ye.
Woo sellers ken aye woo-buyers.
The tod keeps aye his ain hole clean.
Feckless fouk are aye fain of anither.
Friendship canna stand aye on ae side.
He does na aye ride when he saddles his horse.
My son's my son aye till he get a wife, my daughter's my daughter a' the days of her life.
Malice is aye mindfu'.
Like the wife wi' the mony dochters, the best's aye hindmost.
Let aye the bell'd wether break the snaw.
A child is like an axe; even if it hurts, you still carry them on your shoulders.
Do use a needle in time, or you might need an axe later.
Don't use an axe to do embroidery.
An axe does not cut down a tree by itself.
If you are eager to be in the shadow, leave your axe at home.
Don't use an axe to embroider.
An axe without a shaft is no threat to the forest.
The sandal tree perfumes the axe that fells it.
If you are going into the wood -- don't leave your axe at home.
Lilly axe can cut down big tree.
Who goes to church without his axe is a shitty man.
A little axe, when well used, brings lots of food.
Many enter the wood without an axe.
Make a friend of the wolf, but keep your axe ready.
One can't break an axe with a whip.
What was written by a pen, cannot be taken out with an axe.
You need a sharp axe for a tough bough.
The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood.
A forest cannot be cut with a broken axe.
A child is an axe; when it cuts you, you still pick it up and put it on your shoulder.
He who has an axe does not lack firewood.
An axe with rio handle does not split firewood.
A beautiful woman is like an axe in one's life.
The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood.
A blacksmith has no need of an axe.
A forest cannot be cut with a broken axe.
A small axe is not sufficient to cut down a large tree.
If you want to clean the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away.
Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge.
He cut his axe into a big tree.
Even the highest tree has an axe waiting at its foot.
Mistrust is an axe in the tree of love.
The axe forgets what the tree remembers.
It's only love, said the husband when wife threw an axe.
If you want to clear the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away.
Display one's proficiency of axe in front of the master carpenter.
The axe forgets. The tree remembers.
Whenever there is excess, an axe remedies it!
When the tree is fallen every one runs to it with his axe.
Can't tell his ass from a hole in the ground.
Where the camel is sold for a cent, the ass is worthless.
Will he nill he, the ass must go the fair.
The ass well knows in whose house he brays.
The ass of many owners is eaten by wolves.
The ass that trespasses on a stranger's premises will leave them laden with wood.
When you have an ass for a friend, expect nothing but kicks.
There goes more than one ass to market.
An ass is but an ass, though laden with gold.
The arms of Bruges: an ass in an arm-chair.
The ass and the driver never think alike.
An ass does not appreciate fruit compote.
A little nod is enough for the wise man; an ass needs a fist.
The driver of an ass must by necessity know its wind.
You cannot run and scratch your ass at the same time.
A hare is like an ass in the length of its ears, yet it is not its son.
Knowledge without wisdom is a load of books on the back of an ass.
Other people's burdens killed the ass.
Every ass loves to hear himself bray.
If the hair was precious, wouldn't grow on the ass.
A woman has the form of an angel, the heart of a serpent, and the mind of an ass.
Make yourself an ass, and you'll have every man's sack on your shoulders.
Too many sacks are the death of the ass.
An ass in Germany is a professor in Rome.
Not every ass has long ears.
The ass carries corn to the mill, and gets thistles.
There's no sore ass like your own sore ass.
What would you expect from an ass but a kick?
When the ass was invited to the wedding feast he said, "They need more wood and water."
Better be killed by robbers than by the kick of an ass.
The ass dead, the corn at his tail.
The ass embraced the thistle, and they found themselves relations.
The ass that is hungry eats thistles.
A contented ass enjoys a long life.
A dull ass near home trots without the stick.
Play with an ass, and he will slap your face with his tail.
Better have a bad ass than be your own ass.
A drunk's ass has no master.
A braying ass eats little hay.
He who scrubs the head of an ass wastes his soap.
A living ass is better than a dead doctor.
He who is an ass and takes himself to be a stag finds his mistake when he comes to leap the ditch.
A hungry ass eats any straw.
Even an ass will not fall twice in the same quicksand.
Rather an ass that carries than a horse that throws.
There's no making the ass drink when his is not thirsty.
Who cheats is a dog, who lets himself be cheated is an ass.
Who loans his ass to someone else should shit through his ribs.
Sweet is the smell from your own ass.
As ass does not hit himself twice against the same stone.
Better ride a good horse for a year, than an ass all your life.
Give an ass oats and he runs after thistles.
An ox and an ass don't yoke well to the same plough.
I have rather an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
An ass let him be who brays at an ass.
Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; married, an ass.
Give me the ass that carries me in preference to the horse that throws me.
Honey was not made for the mouth of the ass.
If three people say you are an ass, put on a bridle.
When three people call you an ass, put on a bridle.
An ass with her colt goes not straight to the mill.
Good, good, good, but God keep my ass out of his rye.
If an ass goes traveling it will not come home a horse.
He who rides upon an ass cannot help but smell its gas!
The ass knows in whose face he brays.
Even an ass loves to hear himself bray.
When all men say you are an ass it is time to bray.
Account by the dinar, give charity by the ass load.
The ass bedecked with gold still eats thistles.
Make yourself an ass, and every one will lay his sack on you.
One ass nicknames another "Long-ears.”.
Out of a little grass comes a great ass.
The ass and his driver do not think alike.
A hungry ass keeps her kicking end down.
Better is an ass that carries you than a horse that throws you.
Better an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
A goaded ass must trot.
To go safely through the world you must have the eye of a falcon, the ear of an ass, the face of an ape, the mouth of a pig, the shoulders of a camel, and the legs of a deer.
To have "Heard say” is half a lie.
The braying of an ass does not reach heaven.
Better to ride an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
Patience! said the wolf to the ass.
An elephant has enormous dung -- don't try to defecate like an elephant. Don't try to wipe someone else's ass if yours is unwiped.
If you are born an ass, you will die one.
Braying of an ass or barking of a dog, is not heard in Heaven.
An ass endures his burden, but not more than his burden.
An ass must be tied where the master will have him.
Better ride on an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
One ass scrubs another.
It's not shameful not to know, but it's shameful not to ask.
Ask advice of an ignorant man and he will think you are his enemy.
Do not ask questions of fairy tales.
Shameful is not the one who doesn't know, but the one who doesn't ask.
Ask a lot, but take what is offered.
The winter will ask what we did all summer.
Ask help from the spirits after having used all your strength.
If Nakedness promises you a piece of cloth, ask him his name.
If you ask questions, you cannot avoid answers.
All ask if a man be rich, no one if he be good.
To ask a favor from a miser is like trying to make a hole in water.
Never ask a fox to mind the hens.
Let the man who has suffered ask it -- not the man who has travelled.
You ask the donkey when's Wednesday?
When the sculptor is dead his statues ask him for a soul.
Ask which was born first, the hen or the egg.
Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house.
It is easier to believe than to go and ask.
If you want the truth, ask a child.
Never ask God to give you anything; ask Him to put you where things are.
Ask questions from your heart and you will be answered from the heart.
If you really want honesty, then don't ask questions you don't really want the answer to.
Better to beg forgiveness than to ask permission.
If you ask a Negro where he's been, he'll tell you where he's going.
For news of the heart, ask the face.
Ask ten brewers and you will get eleven opinions.
Before you ask a man for clothes, look at the clothes that he is wearing.
Don't ask a dog to judge between a pillar and a tree.
To ask is a temporary shame; not to ask, an eternal one.
If the hunter comes back with mushrooms, don't ask him how his hunt was.
To know the road ahead, ask those coming back.
If you want to find out about the road ahead, then ask about it from those coming back.
If you ask for directions rudely, you might end up a long distance from your destination.
Ask no favors and people everywhere are affable; if you don't drink, it doesn't matter what price wine is.
Ask the truth from a child.
When God gives, he doesn't ask whose son a person is.
When a tortoise embarks on a journey he doesn't ask for directions, because he does not want his enemies to know where he's going.
When you have given nothing, ask for nothing.
It is better to ask twice than to go wrong once.
Ask no questions and hear no lies.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
Ask and you shall receive.
Ask God for what man can give, and you may get it.
Better to ask the way than to go astray.
Ask me what are my virtues, not about the color of my skin.
Ask for a science that would be useful to you, would keep you from harm and shame, then elevate you.
If you wish/ask, wish/ask for more.
He who is afraid to ask is ashamed of learning.
When friends ask, there is no tomorrow.
Ask advice only of your equals.
One fool may ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
Never ask God to give you anything; ask Him to put you where.
Ask for advice but do what you think is best.
Do not ask the old – ask the experienced.
Do not ask advice of the ignorant.
Ask my companion if I be a thief.
Ask my chum if I am a thief.
Better to ask than to go astray.
One idiot can ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
Winter will ask you what you did during the summer.
If you ask for too much at once, you will come home with an empty bag.
What you deserve you don't have to ask for.
Ask for advice, then use your head.
The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey will seem.
Fools ask questions that wise men cannot answer.
Fools ask what's o'clock, but wise men know their time.
What men usually ask for when they pray to God is, that two and two may not make four.
Even though you know a thousand things, ask the man who knows one.
It is not disgraceful to ask, it is disgraceful not to ask.
One must ask the delight of opium from one that smokes it.
Ask for too much so that you can get enough.
Do not stuff your servant with bread, and he won't ask for cheese.
If they say you are good, ask you self if it be true.
Abbot of Carcuela, you eat up the pot and ask for the pipkin.
Ask for too much in order to get enough.
Ask too much to get enough.
To obtain that which is just we must ask that which is unjust.
If you offend, ask for pardon; if offended, forgive.
I never ask God to give me anything; I only ask him to put me where things are.
God does not ask to withstand more than is possible.
When a very short man causes the market to break up in a big fight, bystanders ask him to stand up so that they can see how short he really is.
Ask not what your profits can do for you, but what you can do for your profits.
Never ask when you can take.
Who does not know the path should ask.
A youngster can ask further than an aged has been.
The more you ask how far you have to go, the longer your journey seems.
A leopard is chasing us and do you ask me: ‘is it a male or female?'
Never ask a favor of someone till they have had their dinner.
Who wishes for a short Lent let him contract debts to be paid at Easter.
Black christmas, white easter.
Carnival on the balcony, easter by the fire.
A christmas of games, an easter by the fire.
Spend Easter and Christmas with whomever you want, but celebrate Mardi Gras with your own.
Have a bill to pay at Easter, and your Lent will be short.
Easter so longed for is gone in a day.
Christmas in mud, Easter in snow.
As there is Easter, so there are meager times.
After Easter, there are no more prayers and no more lettuce.
The best of all worlds: A sunny Christmas and a log fire on Easter.
A late Easter, a long cold spring.
An egg is dear on Easter day.
It's not Easter every day.
A spring egg is dear at the Easter day.
If you are travelling towards the East, you will inevitably move away from the West.
Wind from the east is good for neither man nor beast.
The only good thing that comes from the east is the sun.
When the wind is in the east, 'tis neither good for man nor beast.
East or west, home is best.
Do not tear down the east wall to repair the west wall.
Give it to the Yangtze that rambles east to the sea.
East or west, home is best.
Too far east is west.
East, west, home's best.
Travel east or travel west, a man's own house is still the best.
Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet... (Rudyard Kipling)
The north wind is a satisfying wind; the south wind is harmful to man. The east wind is a rain-bearing wind; the west wind is greater than those who live there. The east wind is a wind of prosperity, the friend of Naram-Suen.
Too far East is West.
East or west, home is best.
The wise are as rare as eagles that fly high in the sky.
Eagles catch no flies.
Eagles do not breed doves.
Where the carcass is, there shall the eagles be gathered together.
Eagles don't catch flies.
Where the carrion is, there the eagles gather.
Eagles don't catch flies.
Eagles do not breed doves.
Eagles don't catch flies.
Eagles don't catch flies.
Eagles fly alone.
Cover up the pot, there's an eel in it.
He lords it like an eel in a tub.
The eel that got away is as fat as your thigh.
He who has been bitten by a snake is afraid of an eel.
There is no eel so small but it hopes to become a whale.
Who takes an eel by the tail or a woman by her word, grasp as he will, holds nothing fast.
Who takes an eel by the tail and a woman at her word, may say he holds nothing.
Keeping a woman to her word is like trying to hold an eel by its tail.
What's all the fuss?" said the crane after the eel had slipped away. "I never liked fish anyway.
Who has a woman has an eel by the tail.
An eel by his tail, an Irishman at his word.
I have a sliddery Eel by the tail.
To squeeze an eel too hard is the way to lose it.
An eel escapes from a good fisherman.
Marriage is a sack full of ninety-nine snakes and one eel.
You hold an eel by the tail.
As slippery as an eel. (15th century)
From the woods a beautiful pheasant, from the sea a beautiful moray eel, from the river a den eel, from the cage a beautiful chicken.
The echo knows all languages.
As the call, so the echo.
As the call, so the echo.
Good deeds never leave home, bad ones echo a thousand miles.
A bad word whispered will echo a hundred miles.
There are many echoes in the world, but few voices.
Woman's beauty, the forest echo, and rainbows, soon pass away.
Every one thinks that all the bells echo his own thoughts.
I came to the place of my birth and cried, I came to the place of my birth and cried, "The friends of my youth, where are they?" And echo answered, "Where are they?"
He could not earn enough to buy even cold water.
If you want to sell at a high price you'll earn little.
Those who are discontent to remain in one place will not earn much.
Those who earn a lot are seldom tired, those who get tired seldom earn a lot.
He that marries for money will earn it.
He who works has no time to earn money.
With two bits worth of a donkey you can earn more than with a mule.
By falling we earn to go safely.
Property will not earn life, but life will earn property.
Where you earn your bread, you don't eat the meat.
The lucky eagle kills a mouse that has eaten salt.
Even the mightest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest.
The eagle was killed by an arrow made from its own feathers.
It is not honour for an eagle to vanquish a dove.
The eagle does not war against frogs.
You can best shoot an eagle with an arrow made from its own feathers.
Even the strongest the eagle cannot soar hirer than the stars.
Even the mightest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest.
If you borrow from an eagle you will always be looking up in the sky.
A lazy chick that exposes itself will be a delicious meal for the eagle.
No matter how high the vulture may choose to soar, the eagle will remain king of the sky.
When the eagle is dead, the crows pick out his eyes.
If an eagle is no good, cut it's feathers off.
No need to teach an eagle to fly.
The old age of an eagle is better than the youth of a sparrow.
An eagle will not catch flies.
The eagle does not catch flies.
The eagle does not hunt flies.
Teach an eagle to fly, a dolphin to swim.
It is only the eagle that can give an account of the whisper of the cloud.
The eagle does not catch flies.
One does not become a master diviner in a day. A forest is not made in a season. The swoop of an eagle has seen many seasons and floods...
A tea cup on the edge of a well.
It's no delay to stop to edge the tool.
A desperate person will even hold on to a knife edge.
The fish at the top edge of the fire.
Running on the roof finishes at the edge.
Weaving a net is better than praying for fish at the edge of the water.
Don't look back when you are walking along the edge of a wall.
Rein in the horse at the edge of the cliff.
Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge.
He is the sunshine at the edge of the roof.
Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee.
Whose end of tongue is sharp, the edge of his head must be hard.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge.
Too keen an edge does not cut, too fine a point does not pierce.
The finest edge is made with the blunt whetstone.
Rein in the horse at the edge of the cliff.
The edge of the sword comes from sharpening, and the fragrance of plum blossom comes from the bitter cold.
Ebb does not follow ebb - flood is in between.
After ebb comes flood, and friends with good.
Merchant's goods are ebb and flood.
Love has its tides; before ebb tide you must take advantage of the flood.
The intelligence of the average individual reaches its lowest ebb when he enters a railroad station.
A flow will have an ebb.
A flow will have an ebb.
Three things you cannot comprehend: the mind of a woman, the working of the bees, and the ebb and flow of the tide.
Every flood will have an ebb.
Every tide has an ebb save the tide of graces.
Every flow has its ebb.
The tide will fetch away what the ebb brings.
Education is what you know, not what's in the book.
Never let your education interfere with your intelligence.
Studyation beat education.
To form a dog is the ruin of education.
To form a dog is the ruin of education.
If you think education is expensive try ignorance.
There is no education like adversity.
Education doesn't come by bumping your head against the school house.
Education is a gift that none can take away.
Education begins a gentleman, conversation completes him.
Education is a subversive activity.
Seek education from the cradle to the grave.
Seek education even if it takes you to China.
Crooked by nature is never made straight by education.
What de good a education if him got no sense?
Education is the poor man's haven.
Education: that which discloses to the wise and disguises from the foolish their lack of understanding. (Ambrose Bierce)
Education has no ending.
Education is the best provision for old age.
Never let your education interfere with your intelligence.
From education comes conduct.
Little is spent with difficulty, much with ease.
At a little fountain one drinks at one's ease.
A good harvest does not grow with ease; the more diligent the farmer, the more bountiful the crop.
Ease and honor are seldom bedfellows.
When the heart is at ease, the body is healthy.
He that is angry is seldom at ease.
Think of ease, but work on.
He that is at ease seeks dainties.
Laughing is not always the proof of a mind at ease.
Не is never at ease that is angry.
Without effort no harvest will be abundant.
Dip your paddle in and join the effort.
Even pulling a fish out of the pond requires some effort.
For the lazy and the poor, everything always takes twice the effort.
One should try to get enormously benefited by a small effort.
Effort will not counter faith.
It takes little effort to watch a man carry a load.
Without effort no harvest will be abundant.
What makes up an anthill is the effort and order of determined and organised termites.
Earnest effort leads some to success.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
Without effort there is no food.
A feeble effort will not fulfill the self.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
Without due effort one is not entitled to the fruits of the work.
A deer is an elder to its family.
From the word of an elder is derived a bone.
An Elder does not break wind in public, but in a latrine.
What an elder sees sitting; the young can't see standing.
Alone a youth runs fast, with an elder slow, but together they go far.
When an elder speaks, be silent and listen.
You can run away from your elder, but she'll still out-think you.
An elder uses old eyes to see and so the young use young eyes.
If you refuse the advice of an elder, you will walk until sunset.
If you dip your arm into the picklepot let it be up to the elbow.
Never rub your eye but with your elbow.
Never let a handshake pass the elbow.
The devil is always at the elbow of an idle man.
Elbow grease is the best polish.
Never rub your eye with anything but your elbow.
Grief for a husband is like a pain in the elbow, sharp and short.
If you have a sore eye wipe it with your elbow.
The elbow is near, but try and bite it.
Wipe your eye with your elbow.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight.
The matchmaker always asks for too much money for his eight hundred lies.
The lazy servant takes eight steps to avoid one.
A man fails seven times and rises eight times.
A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
Eight Immortals cross the sea, each employing his or her theurgy.
Eight lives for the men and nine for the women.
A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table.
Six hours sleep for a man, seven for a woman, and eight for a fool.
It's a good marriage when he's twenty eight and she's eighteen.
One can lose four and eight.
The lazy servant to save one step takes eight.
There is only eight years between success and failure in politics.
Others have only one anxiety, but I have eight anxieties.
Eight [homonym 'careful attention' and 'eight'] is more than a thousand.
One can lose four and eight.
May your reign
Continue for a thousand, eight thousand generations,
Until the pebbles
Grow into boulders
Lush with moss.
The mouth of an elderly man is without teeth, but never without words of wisdom.
When the elderly ones in a house travel, the younger ones quickly grow in experience.
If a child shoots an arrow that reaches the top of a tall palm tree, then it must be that an elderly person carved the arrow for him.
A village without elderly is unhappy.
Those who do not listen to the voice of the elderly are like trees without roots.
The strength of the elderly is in the ears and on the lips.
The wisdom of the elderly is like the sun, it illuminates the village and the great river.
The youth walks faster than the elderly but the elderly knows the road.
Who listens to the voice of the elderly is like a strong tree; who turns a deaf ear is like a twig in the wind.
A village without elderly is like a tree without roots.
A youth that does not cultivate friendship with the elderly is like a tree without roots.
Those who respect the elderly pave their own road toward success.
A village without the elderly is like a well without water.
Youths are like waves of the sea, the elderly have strength instead of tide.
The words of the elderly are as sweet as honey, but if you do not listen they become as sour as bile.
In the presence of elderly people one must not pour water.
The elderly, even if deaf and blind, still know a lot.
Youths look at the future, the elderly at the past, our ancestors live in the present.
In the presence of elderly people one must not pour water.
The words of the elderly are as sweet as honey.
Ask ten brewers and you will get eleven opinions.
Eleven don't make a dozen.
Eleven persons take eleven paths.
One plus one makes eleven.
Rain before seven, fine before eleven.
One and one are sometimes eleven.
It's too late to rise early when you wake eleven o'clock.
Eleven don't make a dozen.
Possession is eleven points of the law.
Love is just like rice - plant it elsewhere and it grows.
What is here is elsewhere, what is not here is no where.
When a man raises his voice at home, know that he started lowering if elsewhere.
The sun at home warms better than the sun elsewhere.
If you can not find peace within yourself, it is useless to look elsewhere.
God spends the day elsewhere, but he always spends the night in rwanda.
When a man finds no peace within himself, it is useless to look for it elsewhere.
When we can't find peace in ourselves it is vain to look for it elsewhere.
Tie up the hen that eats at your place and lays eggs elsewhere.
He who knows not how to employ his leisure hath more cares on his mind than the most busy of busily-engaged men.
Do not employ handsome servants.
Don't suspect your employee. If one is suspicious, don't employ him.
If you suspect a man, don't employ him, and if you employ him, don't suspect him.
None but the wise man can employ leisure well.
If you would grow poor without perceiving it, employ workmen and go to sleep.
He who has money to throw away, let him employ workmen, and not stand by.
Why kill time when one can employ it?.
Most men employ the earlier part of their life to make the other miserable.
All are not princes who ride with the emperor.
Everyone is emperor on his own ground.
Only one can be emperor.
A great man will not trample on a worm, nor sneak to an emperor.
Once you have locked your door you are the emperor in your own domain.
Revere the Emperor and expel the barbarians.
The mind is the emperor of the body.
The emperor is the father of his people, not a master to be served by slaves.
Give the emperor what is the emperors and God what is Gods.
The Emperor of Germany is the king of kings, the King of Spain king of men, the King of France king of asses, the King of England king of devils.
The sky is big and the emperor is far away.
Though the emperor be rich, he cannot buy one extra year.
Beginning and ending shake hands.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A hard beginning maketh a good ending.
A bad beginning may make a good ending.
Love is sweet in the beginning but sour in the ending.
A bad beginning, a bad ending.
A good beginning ensures a good ending.
English: A good beginnings makes a good ending.
Destroying an Empire to win a war is no victory. And ending a battle to save an Empire is no defeat.
A gude beginning maks a gude ending.
The English always credit the rest of us with the qualities they don't need themselves.
Armenian Proverbs and Sayings, Translated into English by R. Gevorg Bayyan, Academy of St. Lazarus, Venice, 1889.
English: A good beginnings makes a good ending.
English: An organised group lifts a mountain.
English equivaleny: He who sups with the devil must use a long spoon.
English analogy:.
English equivaleny: The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
English is spoken, American understood.
Speaks French like an English horse.
James Kelly (1818). A Complete Collection of Scottish Proverbs Explained and Made Intelligible to the English Reader. Rodwell and Martin. p. 43.
China National anthem Chinese & English lyrics.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. - English, 17th century.
Putting a withe around sand. Compare the English "a rope of sand.”.
YouTube Slovenian Anthem (with english lyrics)
There aren't enough swear-words in the English language, so now I'll have to call you perkeleen vittupää just to express my disgust and frustration with this crap.
Must guide by hands the tongue, said Ruovisto when he taught Oskari English.
Lend a false ear to false words.
With one ear he hears, and with the other he dismisses.
Listen with one ear; be suspicious with the other.
If a man lends an ear, it's because he, too, wants to speak.
It's a brave bird that makes its nest in the cat's ear.
Money hides in the tiger's ear.
A blind chicken will often find an ear of corn.
A healthy ear can stand hearing sick words.
Even the sharpest ear cannot hear an ant singing.
A sutra in a horse's ear.
A rumor goes in one ear and out many mouths.
No ear is so deaf as one which wishes not to hear.
A crooked cornstalk can have a straight ear.
Give every man your ear but few your voice.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
You cannot make a silk purse of a sow's ear.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
He takes from one ear, and lets it out from the other ear.
In at one ear and out at the other.
A full sack pricks up its ear.
Do not blow in the bear's ear.
In at one ear and out at the other.
Who reminds of the past and recall what has been will have his ear cut off.
There's no making a silk purse of a sow's ear.
Pray for revenge, and God will turn a deaf ear.
If a man told you that a dog had run off with your ear, would you go after the dog or search first for your ear?
Who listens to the voice of the elderly is like a strong tree; who turns a deaf ear is like a twig in the wind.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
The flea troubles him who has got it in his ear.
The ear is only a door.
A dying ear does not feel the medicine.
What is told in the ear of a man is often heard a hundred miles away.
The hollow of the ear is never full.
No matter how close the ear is to the eye they can't see each other.
The eye envies, not the ear.
Come and I'll tell you something, tickles the ear.
A full ear of corn will bend its head; an empty ear will stand upright.
It is a bold mouse that nestles in the cat's ear.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
Words from the heart reach the heart, words from the mouth reach the ear.
It is a bold mouse that makes her nest in the cat's ear.
Advice to a fool goes in at one ear and out at the other.
To cut into another's man's ear is like cutting into a felt hat.
To a quick ear half a word.
In at one ear and out at the other.
To go safely through the world you must have the eye of a falcon, the ear of an ass, the face of an ape, the mouth of a pig, the shoulders of a camel, and the legs of a deer.
To have "Heard say” is half a lie.
The forest has an ear, the field has an eye.
In at one ear and out at the other.
It has neither an ear, nor a tail.
Even the wall has an ear.
An empty ear holds its head upright.
Fear hath a quick ear.
To go in one ear and out the other.
The heaviest ear of corn bends its head lowest.
A full ear requires three good things: good time, good seeds and good hoeing.
The horn that came out last will pass the ear that came out first.
You cannot make a silk purse from a sow's ear.
Well knows the cats whose ear she licks.
Went in one ear and out the other.
Two sparrows on the same ear of corn are not long friends.
Two sparrows upon one ear of corn make ill agreement.
The ear is the road to the heart.
Don't put it in my ear, but in my hand.
Two sparrows on one ear of corn never agree.
What is whispered in your ear tell not to your husband.
Give ear to that man who has four ears.
In at one ear and out at the other. (14th century)
In one ear and out the other.
The ear does not surpass the head.
A mother-in-law should be blind in one eye and deaf in one ear.
It is not every one who takes the right sow by the ear.
Goes in one ear comes out the other.
If you see behind your ear.
In at one ear and out at the other.
You became full by eating, it won't happen by licking.
A poor man is hungry after eating.
Water in the mouth before eating; water in the eyes when the bill comes.
Eating much of sweetness you do not know if it be sweet anymore.
Eating and scratching want but a beginning.
When eating the fruit, think of the person who planted the tree.
When you are eating with a blind man, do not touch his hand.
The dog called "Sorrow," without eating, will be fat in every house.
If eating poison finish up the plate.
If it were not for eating, the back might wear gold.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Good eating deserves good drinking.
Without eating and drinking the hero is no good.
I am a judge of cresses, said the peasant, as he was eating hemlock.
To good eating belongs good drinking.
After eating nine hundred rats, the cat is now going on a pilgrimage.
Eating while seated makes one of large size; eating while standing makes one strong.
No one should take in an eating pawn.
Eating teaches drinking.
If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars? If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
When you are eating with the devil, you must use a long spoon.
Work in micalassu: eating, drinking and strolling.
Eating slowly is good for the stomach; plowing deeply is good for the fields.
The trade of thick-headed Michael: eating, drinking, and idling.
In eating 'tis good to begin, one morsel helps the other in.
Eating sets the head to rights.
Before eating, always take time to thank the food.
The man does not see the brisket he is eating.
Eating little and speaking little can hurt no man.
An idle person may have just three tasks: sleeping, eating and quarrelling.
To really succeed, you must enjoy eating poison.
If you go to a rat's village and it is eating palm nuts, you eat some too.
Eating without sharing is like swearing with your mouth.
Eating is sweet, digging is weariness.
When eating bamboo sprouts, remember the man who planted them.
When going to an eating house, go to one that is filled with customers.
Look not at thieves eating meat, but look at them suffering punishment.
The one you minimise could be eating meat everyday.
The mouth is stupid after eating it forgets who gave it the food.
He who dies of over eating doesn't wither.
If you see a man in a gown eating with a man in rags, the food belongs to the latter.
The visitor who goes away without eating never comes back.
Eating tough meat is always harder for a toothless lion.
Eating a lot does not satisfy greediness.
Eating what you plant is better than begging for leftovers.
Water is colourless and tasteless but you can live on it longer than eating food.
Look and keep silent, and if you are eating meat, tell the world it's fish.
How can the person who is eating dates prohibit the eating of dates? It's better to be a free dog than a caged lion.
How can the eater of dates forbid the eating of dates?
Eating and drinking holds body and soul together.
Eating and drinking Shouldn't keep us from thinking.
The proof of the pudding is eating it.
Appetite comes while eating.
Better leave something than eating overly much.
Three things give us hardy strength: sleeping on hairy mattresses, breathing cold air, and eating dry food.
Do you want to experience real thirst? Then try eating bitter cardoons and roasted fava beans.
Eating makes crumbs.
A person eating must make crumbs.
When the food is cooked there is no need to wait before eating it.
Persist as resolutely as you persist in eating.
Persist as resolutely as you persist in eating.
A good beast heats with eating.
The appetite comes with eating.
Appetite comes with eating.
You don't know a human 'till you've seen her/him eating, when he believes that no one sees.
Before eating, always take time to thank the food.
Swimming right after eating will cause cramps and you'll drown.
Eating brings on your appetite.
Being hit by a dear person or by your lover is like eating raisins.
If you think you have someone eating out of your hands, it is a good idea to count your fingers.
The proof of the pudding lies in the eating of it.
Eating while seated makes one of large size.
If you don't walk after eating, your food remains undigested.
Eating and drinking wants but a beginning.
Whether eating or scratching, the main thing is to start.
Rather one week without eating than Saturday without sauna.
Every man has his own way of eating yogurt.
If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars?
In the entire world, things are two and two.
Those who have saved one life have saved the entire world.
By seeing one spot you know the entire leopard.
A person of high principles is one who can watch an entire chess game without making a comment.
When there is a misunderstanding between the left leg and right leg the entire body falls down.
One word spoken in anger may spoil an entire life.
If you still have money in the month of May, you'll have it the entire year.
It is better to ride for half a year on a good horse than to spend your entire life riding on a mule.
A thriftless woman burns the entire candle looking for a match.
If you don't mend up a small crack on the wall you end up building the entire wall.
The ox which eats hay, works the entire day.
The entire world rests on the tip of the tongue.
With your hat in your hand you can travel the entire country.
The bee, from her industry in the summer, eats honey all the winter.
The dog barks, the pig eats.
When the man is away, the monkey eats his corn and goes into his hut.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
He who eats well speaks well or it is a question of insanity.
If the hyena eats the sick man, he will eat the whole one.
He eats sheep-tail with the wold, and cries with the shepherd.
Whoever eats a pancake never counts the holes in it.
When the affected lady is doing well she eats her peas with a pin.
If a man looks upon your wife pluck out his eye and cook it in a goodly stew. If he eats the stew his manhood will wither and fall off in the next moon.
He who eats when he is full digs his grave with his teeth.
It's the eye that eats.
When the fox is hungry, he eats butterflies.
The farmer grows the corn, but the bear eats it.
The eye is the one that eats.
What a cow eats a calf drinks.
He who eats well is able to face an army.
That which eats you up is in your clothing.
He who eats another mans food will have his own food eaten by others.
One who eats plain food is healthy.
The grasshopper which is always near its mother eats the best food.
Like a monkey who eats belacaan.
Whosoever eats bread without first washing his hands, it is as though he had sinned with a harlot.
The mouth which eats does not talk.
He who sacks his wife because she eats a lot will end up marrying a cannibal.
When an elephant eats and eats and still cries for more, it is the grass that will get embarrassed.
One eats figs whilst the other pays.
He who eats alone chokes alone.
One catches the hare, another eats it.
A glutton lives to eat; a wise man eats to live.
He who eats and drinks with the rich leaves the table hungry.
A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine.
A dog in the manger, that neither eats nor lets others eat.
The worst pig eats the best acorn.
The poor man eats at double cost.
The ass that is hungry eats thistles.
He is no friend that eats his own by himself, and mine with me.
Who eats his fowl alone, must saddle his horse alone.
The gardener's dog neither eats greens not lets any one else eat them.
He who works as a slave, eats as a king.
The wolf bemoans the sheep, and then eats it.
He who eats alone dies alone.
He who eats pears with his master should not choose the best.
A hungry ass eats any straw.
The way one eats is the way one works.
Wise men talk about ideas, intellectuals about facts, and the ordinary man talks about what he eats.
The mouth that eats pepper is the one that the pepper influences.
At a wedding a bride eats the least.
Mother sets aside and the cat eats.
Who eats a lot will make a mountain.
Who eats like a wolf will work like a bear.
Who eats a lot will do a lot.
Who eats bread with barley porridge will be sent to siberia.
The cow that does not eat with the oxen, either eats before or after them.
The impatient person eats goat; the one who hesitates eats beef.
A still sow eats up all the draff.
Hunger eats through stone walls.
'Tis a hard winter when one wolf eats another.
A cat always knows whose meat it eats.
If there is no caviar one eats porridge.
One eats while another watches-that is how revolutions are begun.
At her wedding, the bride eats the least.
Dog eats excreta, but goat gets rotten teeth.
A united family eats from the same plate.
When a child knows how to wash his hands well, he eats with the elders.
The goat eats the grass there where it is tied.
Who eats too much, will then be sick.
A real family eats the same cornmeal.
The way one eats is the way one works.
One generation plants the trees, the next eats the fruit.
Slow moving lion eats meat.
He who eats bitter things gets sweet things too.
He who eats with you will not die with you except he who was born with you.
He who earns calamity, eats it with his family.
He who earns his living in the sun, eats in the shade.
He who eats globefish soup is a fool; so is he who does not.
Vicious as a tigress can be, she never eats her own cubs.
Who eats too much, will then be sick.
When the big tree falls, the goat eats its leaves.
When a monkey doesn't get a banana, he eats chillies.
The man, who eats alone, dies alone.
The mouth that eats should not talk, for it risks swallowing a fly.
He who never eats pumpkins with you, you prepare a few slices for him.
The always-hurrying person eats goat, but the one who takes his time eats beef.
A potter eats from a broken piece of his pots.
A person is what he eats.
He who eats an egg foregoes a future meal of chicken soup.
Who eats his cock alone must saddle his horse alone.
He who becomes a sheep is eaten by the wolf.
Eat when the food is ready; speak when the time is right.
I eat what others have planted and I plant what others want to eat.
O, sheep if I do not eat you, you will eat me, said the hyena.
Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out.
He who wants to eat honey should endure the stings.
He who does not work, must not eat.
Every tree has its worm to eat it.
He who has money can eat ice cream in hell.
The cat knows who's meat it has eaten.
A man who has eaten something becomes shy.
Whatever you eat will rot, whatever you give will blossom into a rose.
The rich would have to eat money if the poor did not provide food.
Dog does not eat dog.
It's better that it should make you sick than that you don't eat it at all.
The impotent man does not eat spicy foods.
Beauty cannot be eaten with a spoon.
When you are given, eat, when you are beaten, run away.
If you have decided to eat a dog, eat a fat one.
Where flies are eaten, eat them.
When the water rises, the fish eat the ants; when the water falls, the ants eat the fish.
Do not eat your chicken and throw its feathers in the front yard.
Don't dirty the place where you have eaten.
Open your mouth before you eat.
Friendship is honey - but don't eat it all.
No one likes to eat crumbs from a feast; everyone likes to sit at the table.
The man who has bread to eat does not appreciate the severity of a famine.
‘I nearly killed the bird.' no one can eat ‘nearly' in a stew.
The poor eat meat when they bite their tongues.
If the hyena eats the sick man, he will eat the whole one.
When all things spoke the potato said, ‘set me warm, dig me warm, eat me warm, that's all i want.'
he has eaten so many snakes that has become a viper.
He who stores, albeit being hungry, the rat will eat.
The ass of many owners is eaten by wolves.
To eat and to itch is in the beginning.
Wolf doesn't eat wolf.
No matter if you eat a little or a lot of garlic, the smell is just as strong.
You are only master of food that you haven't yet eaten.
Better to eat bread in peace, then cake amid turmoil.
At high tide the fish eat ants; at low tide the ants eat fish.
Eat with the devil but give him a long spoon.
Better to drink the milk than to eat the cow.
If you want to eat pickled herring, think about the thirst you will have.
The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass.
Whose bread you eat, his songs you'll sing.
When the leopard is away, his cubs are eaten.
Asses carry the oats and horses eat them.
A moth will eat the finest linen.
A dog on the hay: will neither eat it himself, nor let others eat it.
When the figs are ripe all the birds want to eat.
Eat the bread of the man you hate and also of him you love.
Grapes are eaten one by one.
You are beautiful; but learn to work, for you cannot eat your beauty.
Crows bewail the dead sheep, and then eat them.
The most fragrant of flowers are eaten by the green-fly.
When you are crossing over a river you might be eaten by crocodiles, but don't let yourself get bitten by the little fish.
Don't teach the tiger cub to eat meat.
A dog doesn't like bananas, but he can't bear to think that chickens eat them.
If an ox doesn't know the size of his arse he won't eat an apricot stone.
Allah gives dried beans to eat to him who has no teeth left.
When my child and I have eaten -- then clear the table.
Manage with bread and salted butter until God brings something to eat with it.
If you had teeth of steel, you could eat iron coconuts.
Eat coconuts while you have teeth.
Sweet rice is eaten quickly.
The hand suffers at work, but the mouth still must eat.
Work like an ant and you'll eat sugar.
A hungry dog will eat his own excrement.
The shark who has eaten cannot swim with the shark that is hungry.
A wild dog is best eaten when clubbed to death.
Those who eat alone, die alone.
What is not bitter is good to eat.
What one won't eat by itself, one will eat when mixed with other food.
Dance, father, people's eyes don't eat, they just stare.
Not all porridge cooked is eaten.
If you want to eat pig, choose one which is fat.
A person is asked about his dress not what he has eaten.
He who eats another mans food will have his own food eaten by others.
Why drive away fowls from the dung you do not eat yourself?.
How can you be burnt by chilies which you have not eaten?.
Don't give your son's wife fall-harvest eggplant to eat.
Eat before falling in love.
If you find no fish, you have to eat bread.
Nature gave us two cheeks instead of one to make it easier to eat hot food.
Dripping water can eat through a stone.
The wolf and the dog agree about the goat - which together they eat.
When a lion cannot find the flesh to feed on, it has no choice but to eat the grass.
If a child washes his hands he could eat with kings.
Today's egg is better than tomorrow's hen.
He who steals an egg will steal an ox.
Better an egg this year than a chicken next year.
An egg does not fight a rock.
"an egg is an egg,” said the beadle, but he took the goose-egg.
A good bird begins chirping while in the egg.
Ask which was born first, the hen or the egg.
If the hen had not cackled, we should not know she had laid an egg.
Every cackling hen was an egg at first.
The hen lays an egg, and the cock feels the pain in his backside.
You eat an egg, but you don't understand how painful it was for the chicken.
The egg teaches the chicken how to breed.
Scandal is like an egg; when it is hatched it has wings.
You can't unscramble an egg.
A black hen lays a white egg.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Kill not the goose that laid the golden egg.
An eloquent cock crows as soon as it comes out of the egg.
The egg will be more knowing than the hen.
As good be an addled egg as an idle bird.
They wrangle about an egg, and let the hens fly away.
An egg thief becomes a camel thief.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Out of a white egg often comes a black chick.
Sometimes an egg is given for an ox.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Out of a devil's egg there can only come a devil.
Offer the lazy man an egg, and he'll want you to peel it for him.
He who steals an egg will steal more.
Alligator lay egg but him no fowl.
For an apple and an egg.
Bad egg, bad chick.
Hens like to lay where they see an egg.
A black hen lays a white egg.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
In a very critical situation as the egg will soon tip-over and fall.
Bad fowl, bad egg.
Bad hen, bad egg.
By persevering the egg walks on legs.
If one is not in a hurry, even an egg will start walking.
Learn to rise up out of the enigmatic egg in the hidden land.
Slowly, slowly, even an egg will walk.
Little by little an egg will walk.
When you eat an egg do not insult the chicken.
All the smiths . . . can't mend a broken egg.
No one knows if a bird in flight has an egg in its stomach.
A goshawk is an egg child, if sleeps hungry its his own fault.
The responsibility of power is like holding an egg. Grasp it too tightly and it will drip through your fingers; hold it too loosely and it will drop and break.
The first hen that cackles is the one that laid the egg.
Hit a stone with an egg.
Kill a hen to get the egg.
Flies never infest an egg without cracks.
It is easier to get a chicken back in the egg than to undo a slander.
With time an egg will walk.
Whether the egg crashes on the coconut or the coconut crashes on the egg, it is the egg that suffers.
An egg shouldn't be deceived by the hardness of its shell; it cannot challenge a stone in a fight.
An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow.
If you carry the egg basket do not dance.
The egg shows the hen where to hatch.
He who eats an egg foregoes a future meal of chicken soup.
An egg today is worth a hen tomorrow.
Bad the crow, bad the egg.
A rotten egg can't be spoiled.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
There's always a bad egg in every crowd.
He who steals an egg will steal a camel.
He who feeds the hen ought to have the egg.
Hope is an egg, of which one man gets the yolk, another the white, and a third the shell.
Better half an egg than empty shells.
He has given the hen for the egg.
When the hen had laid an egg she cackles.
He'd offer you an egg if you promised not to break the shell.
Man is harder than a stone and more brittle than an egg.
It is an egg of Columbus.
You cackle often, but never lay an egg.
If you marry money the devil lays an egg in your storeroom.
He would cheat the heron of her egg, though her two eyes were fixed on him.
As unsteady as an egg on a stick.
Better an egg today than the chicken tomorrow.
An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow.
An egg is an egg, said the boor, and took the goose's egg.
Better half an egg than empty shells.
Half an egg is better than an empty shell.
Upon an egg the hen lays an egg.
Half an egg is better than an empty eggcup.
An egg is dear on Easter day.
Politics is a rotten egg; if broken, it stinks.
If a stone falls on an egg, it is bad for the egg; if an egg falls on a stone, it is still bad for the egg.
The horse loves oats; the earth, manure; and the governor, tribute.
As the sun's shadow shifts, so there is no permanence on earth.
The earth is a giant cooking pot and men are the meat therein.
The earth is God's bride -- she feeds the living and cherishes the dead.
When the sky falls down, the earth shall melt.
If our feet leave the earth we no longer live in peace.
The earth is not thirsty for the blood of the warriors but for the sweat of man's labor.
The earth does not shake when the flea coughs.
The gravity of the earth is so strong that the old grey man walks crooked.
The earth is man's only friend.
If God lived on earth, people would break his windows.
While the sun is still up, let people work that the earth may live.
The earth will cover the doctor's mistakes.
Man is the flower of the earth.
Covetousness is never satisfied till its mouth is filled with earth.
When the earth is hot, the worm stays in the ground.
There is nothing hidden between heaven and earth.
We are all wanderers on this earth. Our hearts are full of wonder, and our souls are deep with dreams.
The earth is not ours, it is a treasure we hold in trust for future generations.
The chameleon changes color to match the earth, the earth doesn't change color to match the chameleon.
We are all flesh and blood of the earth and so will return to the ground as rotten maggot encrusted relics.
Earth is but a marketplace; heaven is home.
Poetry moves heaven and earth.
The miracle is not to fly in the air, or to walk on the water, but to walk on the earth.
Earth belongs to the brave but heaven to those who deserve it.
The earth compared to the sky.
On earth it's hard and heaven is far away.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door.
Many who build castles in the air cannot build a hut on earth.
The earth is a host who kills his guests.
The earth covers the errors of the physician.
He who looks only at heaven may easily break his nose on earth.
The distance between heaven and earth is no greater than one thought.
The difference between them is like that between sky and earth.
Gold that falls to earth never dims.
A mother-in-law may be good, but she is better when mother earth covers her up.
They who are born of chickens scratch the earth.
The soul to God, and the body to the earth.
Earth is dearer than gold.
The earth has ears, news has wings.
The soul goes to God, the body to the earth, and belongings to those to whom they should go.
Death finds everyone and the earth renews itself.
In this world I greet my oldest survivor - the earth.
If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; if he kills, the earth hides it.
Mother earth promised to tell her secrets to heaven.
You travel on until you return home; you live on until you return to earth.
We have not inherited the earth from our ancestors, we have only borrowed it from our children.
Treat the earth well. It was not given to you by your parents. It is loaned to you by your children.
To touch the earth is to have harmony with nature.
Touching the earth equates to having harmony with nature.
Be still and the earth will speak to you.
We do no inherit the earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children.
The words of God are not like the oak leaf which dies and falls to the earth, but like the pine tree which stays green forever.
We do not inherit the earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children.
When the grandmothers speak, the earth will be healed.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
To serve a mean person, is to beat the earth.
Walk lightly in the spring; mother earth is pregnant.
Even if we eat, earth will eventually enter our mouth.
Once the mushroom has sprouted from the earth, there is no turning back.
The earth is not an inheritance of our fathers, nor one for our sons.
A mother's tenderness for her children is as discreet as the dew that kisses the earth.
It is the fate of the great ones of this earth, to be appreciated only after they are gone.
Physicians' faults are covered with earth, and rich men's with money.
Even if we eat, earth will eventually enter our mouth.
Speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee.
Looking up we are not ashamed in the presence of heaven, nor bowing down are we ashamed in the presence of earth.
Cheat the earth and the earth will cheat you.
Heaven lent you a soul Earth will lend a grave.
If heaven made him, earth can find some use for him.
The earth offers you a grave everywhere.
One more good man on earth is better than an extra angel in heaven.
He who cheats the earth will be cheated by the earth.
For each man produced by heaven, earth provides a grave.
You can kill a man's identity on earth but you cannot kill is spirit.
Bones and flesh of the martyrs lie buried in earth, but their revolutionary spirit and single-hearted fidelity remain alive.
Nothing on earth is greedier than the eye.
We have never seen the earth show her teeth.
Heaven and earth shall never meet.
A bird may fly off the earth and land on an anthill, but it will still be on the ground.
The strongest man on earth is he who stands alone.
The most horrible sight on earth cannot put out the eye.
It's the tortoise's shell, ugly and hard that protects its life long journey on earth.
Earth is the queen of beds.
The person who is coming from the bowels of the earth doesn't despise even the smallest amount of sunshine.
Doctor's faults are covered with earth, and rich men's with money.
Six feet of earth makes all men equal.
If we don't fight we remain equals, if we do fight then one of us wins.
Five fingers are brothers but are not equals.
Jest with your equals.
Ask advice only of your equals.
The amount of people equals the amount of opinions.
To serve our elders is a duty, our equals it is polite, but serving the young is humiliating.
If you would be respected in company, seek the society of your equals and not of your superiors.
To seek without finding, equals waste of time.
Opportunity plus instinct equals profit.
Ask advice of your equals, help of your superiors.
Five fingers are brothers, not equals.
Nothing equals the joy of the drinker, except the joy of the wine in being drunk.
Choose a wife from among your equals.
If your mind is strong, all difficult things will become easy; if your mind is weak, all easy things will become difficult.
A lady is a woman who makes it easy for a man to be a gentleman.
All things are difficult before they are easy.
It is easier to cover our feet with sandals than to cover the earth with carpets.
It is easier to be a happy bachelor for a year than a widower for a month.
It is easier to milk a cow that stands still.
If you like to have things easy, you'll have difficulties; if you like problems, you will succeed.
'tis easier to hurt than heal.
Falling is easier than rising.
It is easier to take a couple of drinks than to refuse them.
It is easier to watch over one hundred fleas than one young girl.
It is easy to forget a kindness, but one remembers unkindness.
It is easy to see the fly on the other person's nose, while ignoring the horse on your own.
It is easier to put leather on the soles of one's feet than cover the world with leather.
It is easier to believe than to go and ask.
It is easy to be born, it is difficult to be a human being.
Young bamboo trees are easy to bend.
It is easier to fill twenty bellies than one pair of eyes.
It's easier to know your enemies than to know your friends.
Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
It's easy to say "may allah roast the lion's mother,” when the lion isn't there.
It's easy to wad your neighbor's field.
Sometimes you have to be silent in order to be heard it's easier to criticize than to do better.
It is easier to beat two devils into a child, than one devil out.
It is easy to pull a thorn out of someone else's skin.
If you are ready to believe, you are easy to deceive.
It's easier to make it than to think about it.
If things are getting easier, maybe you're headed downhill.
When a man's coat is threadbare, it is easy to pick a hole in it.
Nature gave us two cheeks instead of one to make it easier to eat hot food.
It is easy to dodge a spear that comes in front of you but hard to avoid an arrow shot from behind.
We forget even incense in easy times; come hard times, we embrace the buddha's feet.
It is easier to wage war with wise enemies than be at peace with foolish friends.
Few things are easy to the unwilling.
It is an easy matter for a stingy man to get rich -- but what's the use?
Easy come, easy go.
Easy come easy go.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
Heresy may be easier kept out than shook off.
The descent to hell is easy.
To promise is easy, to keep is troublesome.
Workmen are easier found than masters.
Who are ready to believe are easy to deceive.
It is easier to guard a bushel of fleas than a woman.
Advising is easier than helping.
Blaming is easy; doing better is more difficult.
Daughters are easy to rear, but hard to marry.
It is easier to blame than do better.
It is easier to build two hearths than always to keep fire on one.
The stomach is easier filled than the eye.
Scattering is easier than gathering.
It's easy to knead when meal is at hand.
He who has cattle on the hill will not sleep easy.
Little talk is easy to cure.
He who wants content can't find an easy chair.
When the cucumber is small, you can warp it easier.
It's easier to catch a liar than a limping person.
It's easy to throw something into the river but hard to get it out again.
It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog.
It is easy to frighten the bull from the window.
It is easy to give advice when all goes well.
The man who loves is easy of belief.
If my neighbor is happy, my own work will go easier, too.
It is easier to catch an escaped horse than to take back an escaped word.
It is easy to inflict a wound, but difficult to heal it.
To find your place in life is easier than to occupy it.
With a full belly it is easy to talk about fasting.
It is easier to give orders than to work.
An empty head gets the easiest sleep.
The lowest fence is the easiest to get across.
Easy to change young wood shape than the old one.
A boy is easier cheated than an old lady.
It is easier to dam a river than to stop the flow of gossip.
It is easy to be a man. It is hard to make oneself human.
It is easier to make a lady of a peasant-girl than a peasant-girl of a lady.
It is easier to prevent ill habits than to break them.
It is easy to be liberal out of another man's purse.
Easy to say is hard to do.
It's easier to tear a hole than to mend one.
A good-looking man is pleasant to look at, but it is easier to live with an amusing one.
It is easier to bear a child once a year than to shave every day.
If the world is flooded, it will be easy for the duck.
Custom makes all things easy.
It is easy to tempt a frog to the river.
How easy it is to defeat people who do not kindle fire for themselves.
It's easy to trust a cat once you put the cream out of reach.
It is not easy to meet Good, but it is easy to recognize it.
It is easier to transport a termite hill than have authority in a village.
God helps the early riser.
The horse that arrives early gets good drinking water.
You must decide where you are going in the evening, if you intend to leave early in the morning.
A turkey never voted for an early Christmas.
Good luck beats early rising.
He who gets a name for early rising can stay in bed until midday.
Early sleep and early wake up, gives health and makes you grow.
It's better who God helps than who early arouses.
Woman was born three days earlier than the devil.
The early bird catches the worm.
Those who get to the river early drink the cleanest water.
Rising early makes the road short.
There is no economy in going to bed early to save candles if the result is twins.
If you see an animal running in the early morning know that it is running away from something more scarily than the due.
He who starts his work early enough is neither hit by the severe sun heat nor the burning sand.
If your neighbor is an early riser, you too will become one.
Rise early, live soberly, and apply yourself with industry.
See the weakest fruit drops earliest to the ground.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. (1639)
The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
It's the early bird that gets the worm.
Early marriage, long love.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
If you get a reputation as an early riser, you can sleep till noon.
Don't go early or late to the well.
Sow early and mow early.
Your wife and sheep early at home.
Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others.
God helps him who wakes up early at dawn.
It dawns none the sooner for all one's early rising.
Go early to market and as late as you can to battle.
Early bird hops further.
If you rise too early, the dew will wet you.
Better early than late.
Who laughs early will cry later.
If you want to live to be old you need to start early.
If you urge the donkey on, you'll arrive late, if you let the donkey amble, you'll arrive early.
Better reap two days early than one day late.
He that will get the better of a fox must rise early.
Early flowers give no seed.
Who wakes up early gets the God's help.
God helps the early riser.
No matter how early one awakes, the sun does not rise first.
It's too late to rise early when you wake eleven o'clock.
Three times an early rise makes a whole day.
Clumsy birds have need of early flight.
It is not economical to go to bed early to save the candles if the result is twins.
Better die ten years early than live ten years poor.
A strong person doesn't rush to wake up early morning.
He who wakes up early in the morning receives a bundle of blessings.
It is only the early risers who succeed in filling their baskets with white ants.
A human learns how to talk early, but how to keep silent late.
Early childhood should be as happy and carefree as you can make it.
Good luck beats early rising.
The early bird catches the worm.
The early bird may catch the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
It early pricks that will be a thorn.
Death always comes too early or too late.
Late children are early orphans.
A child's back must be bent early.
Early to rise and late to bed, lifts again the debtor's head.
Those who get the name of rising early may lie all day.
The early bird catches the worm.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
Rise early, and you will observe; labor and you will have.
Who wakes up early, Lord God provides him.
Grapes picked too early don't even make good vinegar.
If someone is coming to kill you, get up early and kill him first.
The stomack is filled earlier than the eye.
He plaints early that plaints on his kail.
He gangs early to steal, that cannot say Na.
He rises over early that is hangit ere noon.
To make your neighbor jealous, go to bed early and get up early.
If you don't collect the sheep early, you get neither the sheep nor the wool.
Marriage must occur early or it will never happen.
He had need rise early who would please everybody.
The early bird catches the early worm.
It is in vain for a man to rise early who has the repute of lying in bed all the morning.
Most men employ the earlier part of their life to make the other miserable.
The future belongs to the man who rises early.
The early man never borrows from the late man.
The early riser is healthy, cheerful and industrious.
God gives to those who get up early.
Cocks that crow too early will quickly find themselves in the pot.
He who would cheat the fox must rise early.
Rise early and watch, labour and catch.
If you would live healthy, be old early.
If you would live in health, grow old early.
Negotiate a river by following its bends, enter a country by following its customs.
If you enter the city of the blind, cover your eyes.
You can never enter the same river twice.
Enter alcohol, exit words.
If you enter a goat stable, bleat; if you enter a water buffalo stable, bellow.
The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door but live in different cells.
When bredin split, enemies enter the gap.
Teachers open the door. You enter by yourself.
The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door.
Fools enter where brave men fear to tread.
Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise.
A great sin can enter by a small door.
Many enter the wood without an axe.
Even if we eat, earth will eventually enter our mouth.
A dog does not enter a home where they suffer from hunger.
A herdsman must yell to enter the fence.
Even if we eat, earth will eventually enter our mouth.
Don't let the windows of your home be so small that the light of the sun cannot enter your rooms.
Unless you enter the tiger's den you cannot take the cubs.
A herdsman must yell to enter the fence.
Don't enter a defecating competition against an elephant.
Not all the baboons that enter a maize field come out satisfied.
Abandon all hope, ye who enter here.
He that will enter into paradise must have a good key.
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
When you enter a great enterprise, free your soul from weakness.
Tumbleweed will not enter into the mouth of the lying camel.
Hunger looks in at the industrious man's door but dares not enter.
The Fox's wiles will never enter the lion's head.
A fly cannot enter a closed mouth.
Let no shovel-beaked bird ever enter your yard.
If you do not enter the tiger's cave, you will not catch its cub.
Flies enter an open mouth.
When liars enter by the city gate, in front of them there is a finger pointing at them, behind them there is a finger pointing at them.
May the Great Spirit bless all who enter there.
A fence does not enter another.
You cannot catch a tiger cub unless you enter the tiger's den.
One does not enter into the water and then run from the cold.
Fools enter where brave men fear to tread.
Envy doesn't enter an empty house.
Envy does not enter an empty house.
Flies and priests can enter any house.
One can't enter heaven by worshiping, one needs to have a pure heart.
You cannot make an omelette without breaking eggs.
You cannot cook your eggs with wind.
Even the rich man's rooster lays eggs.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
A chicken that hatches a crocodile's eggs is looking for trouble.
When a hen is brooding, another hen cannot sit on her eggs.
Even black hens lay white eggs.
Only other people's eggs are double-yolked.
Other people's eggs have two yolks.
A fowl does not forget where it lays it eggs.
To get eggs there must be some cackling.
He lays his eggs beside his nest.
Envy can breed swans from bad duck eggs.
If you were born lucky, even your rooster will lay eggs.
No matter how much the world changes, cats will never lay eggs.
Words are like newly hatched eggs: they already have wings.
Words are like eggs: when they are hatched they have wings.
Even though chickens don't wash, their eggs are still white.
Stroke your dog and he will steal eggs.
Eggs should not fight stones.
Chickens can't go back into eggs.
A hen does not break her own eggs.
Eggs and vows are easily broken.
Eggs cannot be unscrambled.
Opportunities, like eggs, come one at a time.
If you are a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
You can't unscramble scrambled eggs.
His hens lay eggs with two yolks.
Drink upon salad costs the doctor a ducat; drink upon eggs costs him two.
Neutrals tread on eggs and break none.
The Chicken teaches the hen to lay eggs.
The hen's eyes turn to where she has her eggs.
Have faith - God calls forth life even from eggs.
You cackle in our place but you lay your eggs at someone else's place.
Don't reckon your eggs before they are laid.
The hen that cackles in the evening lays no eggs in the morning.
If you want your eggs hatched, sit on them yourself.
Eggs have no business dancing with stones.
The hen's eyes are where her eggs are.
As great birds die the eggs rot.
He cannot lay eggs, but he can cackle.
Black hens lays white eggs.
He runs as fast as if he had eggs in his shoes.
He that will have eggs, must bear with cackling.
Unlaid eggs are uncertain chickens.
The chicken that crows the loudest does not always give the biggest eggs.
Don't put all eggs in one basket.
Love and eggs are best when they are fresh.
You cannot cook one half of the chicken and leave the other lay eggs.
Teaching a jew to deal in the market is like teaching grandmother to eat her eggs.
You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs.
There is reason in the roasting of eggs.
Don't carry all your eggs in one basket.
Eggs and metal should not be put in the same sack.
An overcrowded chicken farm produce fewer eggs.
In the broken nest there are no whole eggs.
The turtle lays thousands of eggs without anyone knowing, but when the hen lays an egg, the whole country is informed.
A person who sells eggs doesn't start a fight in the market.
Black fowl can lay white eggs.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Eggs can't teach the hen.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
You can't teach grandma to suck eggs.
It is a bad hen that lays her eggs away from the farm.
Even clever hens sometimes lay their eggs among nettles.
It is not easy to guard the hen that lays her eggs abroad.
He who will have eggs, must bear with the cackling.
Words are good, but fowls lay eggs.
Unlaid eggs are uncertain chickens.
Fools must not be set on eggs.
He who treads on eggs, must tread lightly.
The hen likes to lay in a nest where there are eggs already.
Don't bring all your eggs to one market.
Do not put all eggs in one basket.
The Wealthy man has even his crow laying him eggs.
Prepare a nest for the hen and she will lay eggs for you.
Don't put all you eggs in one basket.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
Eggs have no business dancing with stones.
Have not all your eggs in one nest.
There is no making pancakes without breaking the eggs.
Teach your grandame to suck eggs.
A hen that cackles much lays only a few eggs.
His eggs hae a' twa yolks.
Small birds lay small eggs.
Let every bird hatch its own eggs.
All that's yellow is not gold, and all white things are not eggs.
Good management and feed give eggs.
Treat your superior as a father, your equal as a brother, and your inferior as a son.
In church, in the taverns, and in coffins all men are equal.
A man forewarned is equal to two.
It is an equal failing to trust everybody and to trust nobody.
Every one to his equal.
Fate and free-will both play an equal role in destinies.
Even our fingers are not equal.
We are all equal before death.
A wise husband and a patient wife equal a peaceful home and a happy life.
All who have died are equal.
Unity is equal to a thousand golden coins.
Enough food and a pipe full of tobacco makes you equal to the immortals.
Two cats can never be equal; one will always be bigger than the other.
The light of a thousand stars doesn't equal the light of the moon.
A good devil is as equal as to a bad god.
Six feet of earth makes all men equal.
Let your actions be equal to your promises.
People are equal like the teeth of a comb..
equal children play best.
Poor or rich, death makes us all equal.
Before God and the bus driver we are all equal.
Death makes us equal in the grave but not in eternity.
The end makes all equal.
Marry your equal.
Death makes equal the high and low.
Give equal in reply, answer according to the call.
Men are equal when they are going and walking.
Your five year old son is your instructor; at ten your slave; at fifteen your equal and after that either friend or foe.
An evil gain is equal to a loss.
We are all equal in the eyes of the Lord.
Error carries away the unteachable.
Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark.
He who stops half way is only half in error.
To make an error is human, keep doing it is foolishness.
Every error has its excuse.
Error is no payment.
It may be easier to perceive error than to find truth.
A minimal error at the start leads to a wide divergence in the distance.
The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life.
Admitting error clears the score and proves you wiser than before.
Error can't be defended by error.
Custom without reason is but ancient error.
An old error has more friends than a new truth.
An old error is always more popular than a new truth.
Truth lies within a little and certain compass, but error is immense. (Henry St. John)
Admitting error clears the score and proves you wiser than before.
Put out the fire betimes, ere it reach the roof.
Buy what you have no need of and ere long you shall sell your necessaries.
Children learn to creep ere they can learn to go.
At every door-way, ere one enters, one should spy round.
Ye're like the miller's dog--ye lick your lips ere the pock be opened.
A bairn must creep ere he gang.
Ye breed of the Millers dog, ye lick your lips ere the poke be open.
Mint, ere ye strike.
Leave the Court, ere the Court leave thee.
He rises over early that is hangit ere noon.
Long ere you cut Falkland-wood with a Pen-knife.
Bind the seck ere it be full.
Charge your friend ere you need.
Laugh at leisure ye may greet ere night.
The cow may dee ere the grass grow.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.
When an elephant is in trouble even a frog will kick him.
A gentle hand may lead even an elephant by a single hair.
The slimming of an elephant and the losses of a rich man are not noticeable.
A fool will pair an ox with an elephant.
An idiot will cross an ox with an elephant.
The elephant that is stuck in the mud will tear down the tree with it.
The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
An elephant can never fail to carry its tusks.
Although he who walks behind an elephant may feel very secure, he is likely to get splattered with elephant dung.
An elephant does not get tired carrying his trunk.
However little you think of the elephant, you can't say it won't fill a pot.
The elephant will reach to the roof of the house.
The ambitious one makes friends with the elephant, then tramples upon the ant.
Keep five yards from a carriage, ten yards from a horse, and a hundred yards from an elephant; but the distance one should keep from a wicked man cannot be measured.
Speak like a parrot; meditate like a swan; chew like a goat; and bathe like an elephant.
The world flatters the elephant and tramples on the ant.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant.
It is no disgrace to move out of the way of the elephant.
The hare and the elephant don't travel well together.
The squirrel does not talk back to the elephant.
The jungle is stronger than the elephant.
It is sad when the elephant dies, but the whole tribe can feed on it.
Every elephant has to carry its own trunk around.
An elephant hunter usually gets killed by an elephant.
Even the elephant can fan off flies with its short tail.
If there were no elephant in the jungle, the buffalo would be a great animal.
The human heart is never satisfied, just like the snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
The hunter who is tracking an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
An elephant never gets tired of supporting its tusks.
When an elephant eats and eats and still cries for more, it is the grass that will get embarrassed.
When an elephant becomes as small as a monkey, it ceases to be an elephant.
The best way to eat the elephant standing in your path is to cut it up into little pieces.
Do not compare a fly with an elephant.
By joining the tail to the trunk one makes up the whole elephant.
The man who has mounted an elephant will not fear the bark of a dog.
The elephant does not feel a flea-bite.
One can only try to get what one can from the head of an elephant, no one ever carries it home.
A man who is trampled to death by an elephant is a man who is blind and deaf.
The Child of an elephant will not be a dwarf.
White elephant born in the forest.
If you want to destroy your enemy, give him an elephant.
A dead elephant cannot be covered by a lotus leaf.
Don't help the elephant to carry his tusks.
People helping one another can bring an elephant into the house.
To make an elephant out of a mosquito.
Be thine enemy an ant, see in him an elephant.
The frog wanted to be as big as the elephant, and burst.
The elephant does not get tired of its tusks.
With patience and a bit of spittle, the elephant picks up the ant so little.
A monkey cannot dare what an elephant can.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
The tracks of the elephant cancels those of the antelope.
You can't eat "almost." Even an ant can hurt an elephant.
The elephant never gets tired of carrying its tusks.
Even an elephant can slip.
An elephant never tires of carrying his own trunk.
To take revenge on an enemy, give him an elephant -- first he must thank you for the gift, and then the elephant's appetite will deplete your enemy's resources.
The person who can see a house in china is unaware of an elephant on his nose.
Perhaps you will eat a whole elephant and nothing gets stuck in your throat, and then you eat a fish and a bone gets stuck in your throat.
The harm done by an elephant is like that done by a storm, or by the government.
You must eat an elephant one bite at a time.
An elephant grows and becomes an adult, even if people do not like it.
The heart of an adult is like that of an elephant.
Who follows the elephant will have no problems.
You cannot kill an elephant with bullets of wax.
A man's greed is like a snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
Even a big elephant can be caught in one female hair.
Man's heart is never satisfied; the snake would swallow the elephant.
Better the cold blast of winter than the hot breath of a pursuing elephant.
When riding on top of an elephant do not assume there is no dew in the thicket.
When elephant steps on a trap, no more trap.
An elephant does not die from one broken rib.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
Everywhere there is a lot of mad even an elephant will slip.
The noise produced by frogs in the well can't stop an elephant from drinking.
It is a stupid dog that barks at an elephant.
When an elephant is dead, a hare will not smell.
Who follows the elephant will have no problems.
Even if the elephant is thin he is still the lord of the jungle.
Even though the elephant is huge enough it cannot carry a big tail.
Don't enter a defecating competition against an elephant.
An elephant that kills a rat cannot be considered a hero.
One day cannot make an elephant rot.
Gnats, in great number, can beat an elephant.
Justice is better than admiration If you are going to kill, then kill an elephant; if you are going to steal make sure it's a treasure.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant. Spreading the news is also multiplying it.
An elephant has enormous dung -- don't try to defecate like an elephant. Don't try to wipe someone else's ass if yours is unwiped.
An elephant in the china shop.
He who would enjoy the feast should fast on the eve.
A fast day is the eve of a feast day.
A day of fasting is the eve of a feast.
The snake that seduced Eve spoke Spanish.
Plan your life at New Year's eve, your day at dawn.
When Adam delved, and Eve span, where was then the gentleman?
Adam got a hoe, and Eve got a spinning-wheel, and thence come all our nobles.
A tear bedews my Delia's eye, From morn till dewy eve; But if you ask the reason why, She can't tell, I believe.
Adam must have an Eve, to blame for his own faults.
When adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?
There is no need for fish in an empty pond.
An empty sack doesn't stand up.
An empty mill will turn without the wind.
Better a bad wife than an empty house.
Empty hands only please their owner.
Empty stomachs have no ears.
Beauty is an empty calabash.
An empty barrel makes the most noise.
An empty belly hears nobody.
The bell is loud because it is empty.
Corsairs against corsairs, there is nothing to win but empty barrels.
You will often see a high collar above an empty stomach.
Empty pots will never boil over.
If a bamboo tube makes a loud sound, it is empty.
If the pocket is empty, the judge is deaf.
Corsair against corsair nothing is got but empty casks.
The Drum is large but empty.
An empty bag will not stay up.
Among walnuts only the empty one speaks.
The empty gives the way to the full.
An empty belly has no ears.
We celebrated at the wax door, and all the time the honeycomb was empty within.
If God were not forgiving, heaven would be empty.
Life without endeavor is like entering a jewel-mine and coming out with empty hands.
Happiness rarely keeps company with an empty stomach.
The jail is closed day and night and always full; temples are always open and still empty.
Empty houses are full of noises.
Five of them would run from the bang of one empty gun.
Empty dishes rattle loudly.
Envy doesn't enter an empty house.
Empty vessels make the most sound.
If the heart is empty, the rest will soon abandon you too.
When the feed box is empty, the horses bite each other.
A loaded wagon creaks; an empty one rattles.
When death comes, it will not go away empty.
The three faults of drinking are: a sorrowful morning, a dirty coat, and an empty pocket.
A narrow neck keeps the bottle from being emptied in one swig.
An empty house is better than a bad tenant.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand itself alone.
You must empty a box before you fill it again.
An empty purse, and a finished house, make a man wise, but too late.
An empty purse frights away friends.
Empty vessels make most noise.
It is the petty expenses that empty the purse.
One who speaks fair words feeds you with an empty spoon.
An empty barrel sounds better.
An empty pantry has a fool housewife.
Empty words will not fill an empty stomach.
An empty barrel sings in the wind.
If you ask for too much at once, you will come home with an empty bag.
An empty head gets the easiest sleep.
Empty barrel mek de mos' noise.
Empty bag cyaa stan' up.
What a sad basket, leaving and returning empty.
A strange glass is emptied in one draught; your own glass not even in ten.
An empty barn needs no roof.
No man can perfectly empty a pot with a ladle.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand upright.
Better a blind horse than an empty halter.
It is bad marketing with empty pockets.
It's the empty can that makes the most noise.
A person who talks a lot usually is empty inside.
The empty vessel makes the greatest sound.
An empty barrel rattles louder.
Fear does not empty tomorrow of its sadness; it empties today of its power.
An empty stomach will not listen to anything.
You think of water when the well is empty.
Who asks at once for a lot, returns home with an empty bag.
When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it.
Empty vessels make much noise.
Dignity and an empty sack is worth the sack.
Never begin a negotiation on an empty stomach.
The hunter that speaks too much, goes home empty handed.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
There is neither wisdom nor courage in an empty belly.
Constant dipping will empty goud of honey.
Virtue carries an empty purse.
If life is fulfilled we go away with empty hands.
Jails are always closed yet full, while temples are always open yet empty.
Outside noisy, inside empty.
An empty sack cannot stand.
If you go to your in-laws you do not come back empty handed but with a cock.
It is easier to carry an empty cup than one that is filled to the brim.
An empty can makes a lot of noise.
An empty sack won't stand alone.
Friendship is an empty word if it only works one way.
A full ear of corn will bend its head; an empty ear will stand upright.
Reason is the wise man's guide, example the fool's.
Example is the greatest of all seducers.
USSR – an example for all.
Precept guides, but example draws.
A good example is the best sermon.
Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give a bad example.
Example can be better than precept.
Example is better than precept.
Leading by example is better than giving and advice.
Nothing is more contagious than a bad example.
A good example is the best sermon.
Example is better than correction.
Lead by example.
There is no example for an unjust court.
Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give a bad example.
Isn't another's example enough for you?
Lead by Example.
Leadership by example.
All good things come to an end.
The end justifies the means.
Better never to begin than never to make an end.
Doubt is the beginning not the end of wisdom.
The end of an ox is beef, and the end of a lie is grief.
He who begins a conversation does not foresee the end.
Between the beginning and the end there is always a middle.
Better a mistake at the beginning than at the end.
Someone's end is someone's beginning.
There is light at the end of the tunnel.
The cheap things prove to be expensive at the end.
Neither trust or contend, nor lay wagers or lend, and you'll have peace to your end.
In the end, all foxes meet at the furrier's.
At the end of the game we see who wins.
At the end of the game, the pawn and the king go back in the same box.
At the end of the work you may judge of the workmen.
The essence of the spirit is space; there is nothing it holds to in the end.
Chairity begins at hame, but shouldna end there.
End well, all well.
Everything has an end with the exception of God.
Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle.
Everything has an end except God.
At the end the Gloria is chanted.
The end is good, everything is good.
It takes two to make a quarrel but only one to end it.
Sorrow is like rice in an attic: you use a little every day and at the end it is all gone.
Quarrels end, but words once spoken never die.
Everything has an end.
With gold you can make a road to heaven but it will end in hell.
Cooling the tongs is not end of forging.
A worthy cause is worth pursuing to the end.
If we don't change our direction we're likely to end up where we're headed.
If you ask for directions rudely, you might end up a long distance from your destination.
Bit by bit, in the end it becomes a hill.
He who sacks his wife because she eats a lot will end up marrying a cannibal.
If you understand the beginning well, the end will not trouble you.
A whistling girl and a crowing hen never came to a good end.
Honesty is like an icicle; if once it melts that is the end of it.
The world still he keeps at his staff's end that needs not to borrow and never will lend.
In every beginning think of the end.
Even the longest day has its end.
The longest road has an end and the straightest road has an end.
Thirst is the end of drinking and sorrow is the end of drunkenness.
Though wisdom is good in the beginning, it is better at the end.
He who never begins will never end.
At the end of the game you'll see who's the winner.
The end of the corsair is to drown.
Two bears in one cave will not end up well.
The best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm.
If you deliberate for too long, you will end up with leftovers.
If you take too long to choose, you will end up with the leftovers.
Beginning cruel end good.
At the end of the song comes payment.
If everyone's misfortunes were seen by all in broad daylight, in the end people would take back their own.
Who starts with small will end up with big.
Who lives together with a pig will end up eating shit.
When in March sun and water are taking turns with water and sun, the mules end up doing the carrying.
Who doesn't make a knot at the end of the thread, loses the stitch more than once.
If you reach for something that is far too good for you, it is not going to end well.
If you ever need a helping hand you'll find one at the end of your arm.
God does not pay weekly, but He pays at the end.
Hastiness is the beginning of wrath, and its end repentance.
The end of mirth is the beginning of sorrow.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
The end is the crown of any work.
However would the string wind, the end will be reached.
At the game's end we shall see who gains.
May it end with threats and not come to blows.
Regret, like a tail, comes at the end.
When you die, your sister's tears will dry as time goes on, your widow's tears will end in another's arms, but your mother will mourn you until the day she dies.
He who walks the path of evil comes upon an evil end.
Once the dog's dead, the rabies end.
It takes two to start an altercation, but only one to end it.
Old and new millet seeds end up in the same mill.
It is better that trials come to you in the beginning and you find peace afterwards than that they come to you at the end.
A child's lie is like a dead fish in a pond that in the end, always comes to the surface, explains his mother.
In the end we will conserve only what we love; we will love only what we understand; we will understand only what we are taught.
In the end, the well being of the pono, will be in the hands of the commoner.
The longest day soon comes to an end.
Some who will not speak against another, in the end does them harm.
Who wills the end, wills the means.
We all end up in a single bed sooner or later.
In life, it is always possible to reach agreement in the end.
Cunning comes to an end, what remains is folly.
The beginning of sin is sweet; its end is bitter.
Success in the end erases all the mistakes along the way.
Three glasses of wine end a hundred quarrels.
A one-inch error at the start can be a thousand miles at the end.
The virtuous will be praised but not envied.
The enemy's own punishment is his envy.
If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity.
Envy can breed swans from bad duck eggs.
Envy sees the sea but not the rocks.
Envy follows merit like the shadow follows the body.
Envy and greed grow on the same stalk.
Envy shoots as others and wounds herself.
Large trees are envied by the wind.
Envy doesn't enter an empty house.
Envy is a kind of praise.
Envy is blind.
Envy is left-handed praise.
Envy is destroyed by true friendship.
Better to be envied than pitied.
Envy shoots at others and wounds itself.
As love thinks no evil, so envy speaks no good.
Envy is a weight not placed by its bearer.
Envy accomplishes nothing.
Who can escape envy and blame, that speaks or writes for public fame?
After honor and state follow envy and hate.
Envy crieth of spite where honour rideth.
If envy would burn, there would be no need for wood.
Compete, don't envy.
Envy for a friend is like the taste of a sour pumpkin.
They that envy others are their inferiors.
Merit is often an obstacle to fortune; the reason is it produces two bad effects, envy and fear.
Between imitation and envy, imitation is better.
A friend's envy is worse than an enemy's hatred.
Better be envied than pitied.
Compete, don't envy.
When fortune's chariot rolls easily, envy and shame cling to the wheels.
Rust consumes iron and envy consumes itself.
Envy eats nothing, but its own heart.
Envy envies itself.
Better envy than pity.
The house of envy lies in the lowest hollows, golden, sunless, breathed upon by no wind, grim and filled full of inert chill, and lacking warmth, is always roiled in fog.
Better be envied than pitied.
You'd better have one hundred who envy you than one who is sorry for you.
Envy always shoots at a high mark.
The poor man has none to envy him.
Envy is the truest form of flattery.
Better be envied nor pittied.
From the well of envy, only a fool drinks the water.
Those who envy die, but envy stays alive.
Envy goes beyond avarice.
Envy takes no holiday.
Envy no man.
Envy waits on boasting.
Happiness invites envy.
We all envy other people's luck.
Envy is the companion of glory.
Envy never has a holiday.
The torment of envy is like a grain of sand in the eye.
One who carries a pot of honey doesn't envy the sugarcane farmer.
Envy is a kind of praise.
Envy doesn't enter an empty house.
A bite from a lion is better the look of envy.
Envy does not enter an empty house.
If envy were a fever, all the world would be ill.
The house of envy lies in the lowest hollows, golden, sunless.
Greed and envy are good neighbors.
Envy eats nothing but its own heart.
Everything has an end with the exception of God.
Every rule has its exception.
"No rule without exception.”.
Speedy exception is the mother of good fortune.
There is an exception to every rule.
There is an exception to every rule.
The exception proves the rule.
An exception to every rule.
There is no rule without an exception.
Exception strenghtens the rule...Kivétel erősíti a szabályt.
The exception confirms the rule.
One spark is enough to burn a hundred worlds.
One sin is too much, a hundred prayers are not enough.
Neither handsome enough to kill nor ugly enough to frighten away.
He is rich enough that wants nothing.
There is never enough where nought is left.
Not having enough is like not having anything.
Beat a chinese long enough and he will talk tibetan.
The flour tastes bitter to the mouse who has had enough.
It is not enough to run; you must start on time.
With poison, one drop is enough.
The lap of its owner is security enough for a cat.
If you know a lot, know enough to make them respect you, if you are stupid, be stupid enough so they can pity you.
A little nod is enough for the wise man; an ass needs a fist.
A woman's tongue is sharp enough to pierce the toughest flesh.
Who is brave enough to tell the lion that his breath smells?
If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work.
If you sit by the river long enough, you will see the body of your enemy float by.
If you wait long enough, it will be good weather.
He is rich who knows when he has enough.
If you want to keep camels, have a big enough door.
He who starts his work early enough is neither hit by the severe sun heat nor the burning sand.
Between two friends even water drunk together is sweet enough.
The man who has eaten enough will never believe a hungry one.
Christmas comes, but once a year is enough.
Nobody has ever bet enough on a winning horse.
Leave well enough alone.
Leaves enough, but few grapes.
Enough is enough and sometimes plenty.
He that lives well is learned enough.
There are too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
Fortune give many too much, but no one enough.
He who brings bad tidings, comes soon enough.
Scratching and borrowing do well enough, but not for long.
Too much is not enough.
If the cat sits long enough at the hole, she will catch the mouse.
It is not enough for a man to know how to ride; he must know how to fall.
If all the bees made honey, there would be enough for even gypsies to eat.
He has nothing, for whom nothing is enough.
He keeps his road well enough who gets rid of bad company.
Don't pull hard enough to break the rope.
Women, priests, and poultry, never have enough.
He has gained enough who gives up a vain hope.
He is rich enough who does not want.
It is not enough to aim; you must hit.
He who has had enough to eat thinks of serving God; the hungry think of stealing.
There is no coat big enough to hide both poverty and drunkenness.
Even the most welcome guest is more than enough for three days.
He could not earn enough to buy even cold water.
Draff's good enough for swine'.
It is not enough to run, one must arrive and know when one has arrived.
When will the goat be strong enough to kill a leopard.
Enough with the irrelevant details.
When force and reason are in conflict, force of reason prevails and being reasonable isn't enough.
Too much spoils and too little is not enough.
Prepare the fallow field well enough and you'll be free to go off and gather the hemp ties.
Drink coffee while it's hot enough to make you swear but let the chocolate cool.
The word "enough” does not exist for water, fire, and women.
Foreign places are nice enough, but home is sweeter.
Enough is better than too much.
Ill tidings come soon enough.
A word is enough to the wise.
Half a word to the wise is enough.
Friends are lost by calling too often and by not calling often enough.
He who curbs his desires will always be rich enough.
Ask for too much so that you can get enough.
He is blind enough who cannot see through a sieve.
Ask too much to get enough.
For a chaste woman God is enough.
He came time enough who was hung by candlelight.
One string is good enough to a good musician.
It is not enough to know how to ride you must also know how to fall.
It is observed that in any great endeavor, it is not enough for a person to depend solely on himself.
It is not enough for a man to know how to ride, he must also know how to fall.
It is not enough for a man to know how to ride, he must also know how to fall.
One rind is enough to tie a thousand pieces of wood.
Dip the pitcher into the water enough and it finally breaks.
There will be sleeping enough in the grave.
Soon enough is well enough.
Because friendship is pleasant, we partake of our friend's entertainment; not because we have not enough to eat in our own house.
Between true friends even water drunk together is sweet enough.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
A mother is like a kernel, crushed by problems but strong enough to overcome them.
A small house is enough room for a thousand friends.
Poor is the person who does not know when he has had enough. He who talks to a silent listener will soon stand naked.
You will never learn enough looking for only the good things in life; you will always be a pupil.
He who knows not when he has enough, is poor.
Virtuous for ten years is still not enough; evil for one day is too much already.
To do good for ten years is not enough; do bad things for one day and it is too much.
While yearning for excess we lose the necessities.
There is an excess of familiarity at the root of all hostility.
The excess of a virtue is a vice.
Excess of delight palls the appetite.
An excess of courtesy is a discourtesy.
An excess of caution does no harm.
Excess of obligations may lose a friend.
Excess in anything becomes a vice.
The excess of mirth leads to tears.
Whenever there is excess, an axe remedies it!
While the smart man plans to get married, the foolish one ends up with a family.
As is well that ends well.
The ends justify the means.
All's well that ends well.
War ends nothing.
Credulity breeds credulity and ends in hypocrisy.
All is well that ends well.
He who would be a redeemer ends up crucified.
He who fixes his mind much on water ends up not drinkink it.
Burning the candle at both ends.
Who begins amiss ends amiss.
Good as drink is, it ends in thirst.
Irishwomen have a dispensation from the pope to wear the thick ends of their legs downwards.
All's well that ends well.
Love begins with song and music and ends in a sea of tears.
When ambition ends, happiness begins.
The advice of a woman ends with "Oh, if I had only known!"
Water ends up at the sea.
One who spends too much time choosing ends up with cracked wares.
The river's reputation ends where the sea begins.
His courage oozed out at his fingers' ends.
When your wine is finished, conversation ends; when your money has been spent, you lose your friends.
Burning the candle at both ends.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
Serve even an unbeliever to attain your own ends.
He who selects coconut with great care ends up getting a bad coconut.
No needle is sharp at both ends.
The happiest life ends before death.
A restless grasshopper eventually ends up in a birds teeth.
He who asks you to converse ends up telling others that you're shouting.
He who gets annoyed of darkness ends up knocking himself everywhere.
Don't burn the candle at both ends.
Where law ends, tyranny begins.
Anger begins with folly, and ends with repentance.
He who works begins well; he who economises ends better.
Never love with all your heart, it only ends in breaking.
Wrath begins in madness and ends in repentance.
What starts with a condition ends with out any oppression.
The corn will bend but it still ends up in the mill.
Life, like a fire, begins in smoke and ends in ashes.
Marriage is the opposite to a fever attack; it begins very hot and ends very cold.
Anger ends in cruelty.
After the storm ends, the sun will shine.
All's well that ends well.
Unwillingness ends in groaning.
All is well that ends well.
We should not burn the light in both ends.
The cowherd who has fodder has bread, and if he doesn't have fodder then he ends up without oxen and without bread.
Love is like a cucumber, it starts off sweet and ends up bitter.
Everything ends in weeping.
All's well that ends well.
He burns the candle at both ends.
He who begins badly, ends badly.
To burn the candle at both ends. (1678)
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
What starts with a needle usually ends with a silver bowl.
Where ambition ends happiness begins.
Inferior men do not begin undertakings for fear of difficulties. Average men begin, but desist once difficulties appear. Men of superior nature never give up until they achieve their ends, however many the difficulties that appear.
When one tries to shake a big tree, he ends up shaking himself.
All is well that ends well.
Where law ends, tyranny begins.
When the two ends of the candle are lighted it does not stand long.
Unwillingness ends in groaning... Nem akarásnak nyögés a vége.
All is well that ends well.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
All is well that ends well.
When one work ends, begins another.
It ends quickly like the hen's singing.
Ends and beginnings are identical.
A deer tethered with a golden chain can escape to the forest to eat grass.
Courage is ten, nine is the ability to escape.
Give a horse to the one who likes the truth so that on it he can escape.
He who hunts two hares does not catch the one and lets the other escape.
Even if the sky falls on you, there is a hole that you can escape from.
He who is after two things at the same time, one will surely escape him.
There is no escape from heaven's web.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow.
A man doesn't escape from bees with a lump of honey in his hand.
Sometimes you have to throw yourself into the fire to escape from the smoke.
You may go where you want, but you cannot escape yourself.
Escape from a tiger to be eaten by a crocodile.
Who can escape envy and blame, that speaks or writes for public fame?
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned. You can't escape your destiny.
If you aim your spear at two fish, both will escape.
Words are like bullets; if they escape, you can't catch them again.
No matter how long a bird lives in a cage, it will always want to escape.
You can't escape your destiny.
We hang little thieves, and let great ones escape.
He that lets his fish escape, may cast his net often yet never catch it again.
The horse may run quickly, but it can't escape its own tail.
The spider's web lets the rat escape and catches the fly.
When reading, don't let a single word escape your attention; one word may be worth a thousand pieces of gold.
You can't escape your fate [even] with a horse.
Even the devil cannot escape a woman.
A thousand friends are few; one enemy is too many.
He who has only one enemy, meets him everywhere.
Any wise enemy is better than an ignorant friend.
Ask advice of an ignorant man and he will think you are his enemy.
Bashfulness is an enemy to poverty.
The friend who helps me and the enemy who does me no harm, make a pair of earrings.
An old enemy never becomes a friend.
There are three kinds of enemy: the enemy himself, the friends of your enemy, and the enemies of your friends.
It is a real compliment that comes from an enemy.
A flatterer is a secret enemy.
One enemy is too many; 100 friends are far too few.
The obliging fool is worse than an enemy.
A person's worst enemy can't wish on him what he can think up himself.
Beware, the enemy lies under your blanket.
Best is the enemy of good.
The enemy you know is better than the one you do not know.
Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house than to have one single enemy inside it.
If the hare is your enemy, admit that he can run fast.
Your friend chooses pebbles for you and your enemy counts your faults.
You know who your friend and your enemy are during difficult moments.
A sensible enemy is better than a narrow-minded friend.
He who has patience with his enemy, rewards himself.
The ignorant is his own enemy.
An intelligent enemy is worth more than a stupid friend.
Do not sigh, for your enemy will hear and rejoice.
He who shares my bread and salt is not my enemy.
All people have their friend and their enemy within themselves.
Bribery is the enemy of justice.
If you sit by the river long enough, you will see the body of your enemy float by.
It is easy to dodge the arrow of an enemy, but difficult to avoid the spear of a friend.
If thine enemy wrong thee, buy each of his children a drum.
If you are digging a pit for your enemy, don't make it too deep, for you may fall into it.
Gossiping about the enemy can result in a war.
An intelligent enemy is better than a stupid friend.
If the rabbit is your enemy, admit that he can sprint fast.
When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you.
Enjoy breakfast all alone, share lunch with your best friend and give dinner to your enemy.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
Never tell your enemy that your foot aches.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
In taking revenge, a man is but even with his enemy; but in passing it over, he is superior.
He that dallies with his enemy gives him leave to kill him.
Better an honest enemy than a false friend.
My friend's enemy is often my best friend.
There is no little enemy.
An enemy that is surprised is already half-defeated.
I would rather have a dog my friend than enemy.
Never fight an enemy whilst it is possible to cheat him.
One enemy can harm you more than a hundred friends can do you good.
Scratch a lover and find an enemy.
A trade not properly learned is an enemy.
Your friend and your enemy think you will never die.
Listen to that which is well said even if it is from the mouth of an enemy.
What can the enemy do when the friend is cordial.
Trust not a new friend or an old enemy.
Hunger and cold surrender a man to his enemy.
Money lent, an enemy made.
Make a silver bridge for a flying enemy.
Haste is the enemy of perfection.
The man of your own trade is your enemy.
You have lent and not recovered; and if recovered, not so much; and if so much, not such; and if such, a mortal enemy.
A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy.
He that shows his passion, tells his enemy where he may hit him.
One enemy is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.
All are brave when the enemy flies.
Look with suspicion on the flight of an enemy.
Absence is the enemy of love.
One enemy is too much for a man, and a hundred friends too few.
Peel a fig for your friend, a peach for your enemy.
Trust not the praise of a friend nor the contempt of an enemy.
Your enemy makes you wiser.
Nice words appease even the enemy.
The looking glass is the enemy of ugly women.
A thousand friends are too few; one enemy is one too many.
The enemy of a father will never be friends of his son.
Feed your horse as a friend, mount him as an enemy.
If you want to destroy your enemy, give him an elephant.
The store of rice in your attic is your enemy -- it makes them who have none very jealous.
Speak well of your friend; of your enemy say nothing.
Never trust overmuch to a new friend or an old enemy.
Who wants to makes his friend his enemy should loan him some money.
My enemy isn't the one who harms me, but the one who makes me evil.
Beware of still water, a still dog, and a still enemy.
For a flying enemy make a silver bridge.
He cannot be a friend to any one who is his own enemy.
The lucky man's enemy dies, and the unlucky man's friend.
One who seeks no friends is his own enemy.
A weapon is an enemy even to its owner.
Wise men learn at another's expense.
Set thy expense according to thy trade.
Set your expense according to your trade.
The price of a laugh is too high, if it is raised at the expense of another.
Expense is bigger than income.
You can never be happy at the expense of the happiness of others.
Peace is costly but it is worth the expense.
Those who take the profits should also bear the expense.
The road to ruin is kept in good repair, and the travellers pay the expense.
It is worse to excuse than to offend.
The fool's excuse is bigger than the mistake he made.
A bad excuse is better than none.
There is never wanting an excuse for drinking.
An absent person has his excuse.
An absent person should have his excuse.
An unasked excuse infers transgression.
Success never needs an excuse.
He is a bad shot who cannot find an excuse.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse for breaking it.
Every error has its excuse.
An unasked for excuse infers transgression.
That which is customary requires no excuse.
Any excuse is good if it hold good.
Every excuse is good, if it works.
Love is an excuse for its own faults.
A wilful fault has no excuse, and deserves no pardon.
Love will find a way. Indifference will find an excuse.
Blame yourself as you would blame others; excuse others as you would excuse yourself.
Oh hyena, don't give me excuse to eat me.
Don't give a dog a bad name in order to have an excuse to burn it.
A lazy man plants on a mad bark as an excuse for not planting.
Bad men excuse their faults, good men leave them.
Where there is a will there is a way. Where there is no will there is an excuse.
Don't be ever in court or a castle without a woman to make your excuse.
Being ignorant of law is no excuse.
A good excuse is never bad.
An unrequested excuse is a self accusation.
If you don't want to do something, one excuse is as good as another.
Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse.
What is in use, wants no excuse.
Find you without an excuse, and find a hare without a meuse.
A given excuse that was not asked for implies guilt.
Better a bad excuse, than none at all.
An excuse is sometime more ugly than a guilt.
Sleep is the excuse of sleep.
Morning is wiser than the evening.
You must decide where you are going in the evening, if you intend to leave early in the morning.
Evening promises are like butter: morning comes, and it's all melted.
Half an hour in a spring evening is worth a thousand gold pieces.
A joyful evening may follow a sorrowful morning.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
It is better to begin in the evening than not at all.
At evening the sluggard is busy.
The later the evening, the fairer the company.
About evening a man is known.
Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head.
No day but has its evening.
Radish is poison in the morning, food at noon and medicine in the evening.
The hen that cackles in the evening lays no eggs in the morning.
See a sheaf of corn in the morning and a young woman in the evening.
The world is nonsense: what looks beautiful in the morning looks ugly in the evening.
Christ doesn't pay every friday evening.
Who is stupid in the morning will be stupid in the evening.
One is wiser in the morning than in the evening.
Do not leave to morning the business of evening.
Go not every evening to your brother's house.
He was entrapped by the evening, it has cost him his marriage.
A rosy face in the morning, white bones in the evening.
Curse your wife at evening, sleep alone at night.
The evening crowns the days.
Even the most beautiful morning cannot bring back the evening.
A good breakfast cannot take the place of the evening meal.
A joyous evening often leads to a sorrowful morning.
Every day has its evening.
Towards evening the lazy person begins to get busy.
In the evening one may praise the day.
The morning is wiser than the evening.
Evening song with drinks: morning song with coughs.
All days' evening is not come.
They had never an ill day, that had a good evening.
Praise the fine day in the evening.
One must have to wait till the evening of one's life time to know what gratitude to pay to one's guardian spirit.
The morning rainbow reaches the fountains; the evening rainbow fills the sails.
Women and cloth should not be bought in the evening.
An evening rainbow means good weather in the morning, a rainbow in the morning fills wells and fountains.
First harvest honey and wax during the day, then dance and play in the open during the evening.
You know not what the evening may bring with it.
Don't spend the evening in a house where you can't spend the night. A good name is better than good perfume. After the hyena has gone, the dog barks.
One shouldn't praise the day before the evening.
Asleep in the morning, awake in the evening will destroy the house.
He lives like the last day and even the evening of it.
Intelligence comes, but in the evening train.
Don't praise the day until it is evening.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
The morning is wiser than the evening.
If you curse your wife in the evening, you will sleep alone at night.
Praise a fair day in the evening.
In the morning potatoes, in the daytime potatoes and when the cows return in the evening it's potatoes again.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
Has there ever been a day without an evening?
Expect trust from a dog but not from a woman.
Hope for the best, expect the worst.
Don't expect. Inspect.
When you have an ass for a friend, expect nothing but kicks.
Do not always expect good to happen, but do not let evil take you by surprise.
Do good if you expect to receive it.
He who falls victim to his enemies can expect no mercy.
If you debark a tree don't expect it to live again; you can only plant another of its kind.
If a mother steals with a child stripped in the back what do you expect of the child.
You cannot expect me to carry you on my back and then you say my head smells.
It is too much to expect of a cat that she should sit by the milk and not lap it.
What would you expect from an ass but a kick?
Do ill, and expect the like.
To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of.
He who does many bad deeds can expect a big one in return.
Whosoever chooses to deny their past can not expect to find a future.
Do not expect good in return for a good deed.
Expect the worst from your enemy so that you won't be disappointed.
The best gifts are those which expect no return.
When we least expect it, the hare darts out of the ditch.
He who throws the ball, must expect it back.
Bear with evil and expect good.
Fortune is a woman; if you neglect her today do not expect to regain her tomorrow.
Small gifts go to places where men expect bigger ones.
Expect not at another's hand what you can do by your own.
It is sheer folly to expect justice from the unprincipled.
He who conceals his disease cannot expect to be cured.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you visit a place where the chief himself sits on floor.
Whoever tastes from the head of a poppy will not expect any thing from love.
All people are your relatives, therefore expect only trouble from them.
How can you expect to find ivory in a dog's mouth?
A bad habit is like fire you can't play with it and expect not to get burnt.
There is no way you can pour water into a basket and expect the water to remain.
If you're very unkind today don't expect favours tomorrow.
Those who make friendship with a club shouldn't expect a good handshake.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you are visiting a place where the chief sits on the floor.
They who play with edged tools must expect to be cut.
Don't knock at a dead man's door and expect an answer.
Those who betray their friends must not expect others to keep faith with them.
Those who try to deceive may expect to be paid in their own coin.
He that plays with cats must expect to be scratched.
You must not expect old heads upon young shoulders.
He that plants thorns must never expect to gather roses.
From children you must expect childish acts.
Rats and conquerors must expect no mercy in misfortune.
From a broken violin do not expect fine music.
Proportion your expenses to what you have, not what you expect.
He who wrongs someone has to expect something in retaliation.
Suffer and expect.
What can you expect from a pig but a grunt?
If it isn't wintry in January then expect the worst in February.
Things often happen when you least expect them to. Where we least think, there goes the hare away.
The day I did not make my toilette, there came to my house one I did not expect.
The day I did not sweep the house, there came to it one I did not expect.
If you go away, you can't expect people to keep your place for you.
As you behave towards others, expect that others will behave to you.
Gather thistles, expect prickles.
Never expect your friends to do for you that which you can yourself accomplish.
If you play push with the porcupine, expect to get sore hands.
Don't expect from others what you can't promise them yourself.
If you have ground nuts in your room expect rats.
They who play with edged tools must expect to be cut.
Those who try to deceive may expect to be paid in their own coin.
Don't expect to be long in this world, but try to be good while you are in it, for death is certain.
We must not expect everything, everywhere, and from everybody.
Everybody has been young before, but not everybody has been old before.
You cannot please everybody.
Copying everybody else all the time, the monkey one day cut his throat.
Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son.
No one will give a pauper bread, but everybody will give him advice.
If everybody said bread and cheese, you put your head down and die.
That which everybody guards will soon disappear.
To protest and knock one's head against the wall is what everybody can do.
When we sing everybody hears us; when we sigh, nobody hears us.
Not everybody who wears spurs is a jockey.
Everybody loves a lord.
Except for my father and my mother everybody lies.
He labours in vain who tries to please everybody.
A thief believes everybody steals.
It is an equal failing to trust everybody and to trust nobody.
The stone that everybody spits upon will be wet at the last.
Not everybody is as bad as he is dressed.
Everybody knows best where his own shoe pinches.
Everybody is the architect oh is own fortune.
Wine and women make fools of everybody.
The Sun rises for everybody.
Everybody joins to blame or condemn a child who overthrows the pot of soup.
On thin ice everybody have the same strength.
If he keeps on imitating everybody the monkey will one day cut his own throat.
Everybody has a hump when he stoops.
Everybody must live.
Truth is the club that knocks down and kills everybody.
If the fool has a hunchback no one remarks about it; if a wise man has a boil everybody talks about it.
A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody.
A friend to everybody and to nobody is the same thing.
Everybody has a name, but not always the same luck with it.
The one who pleased everybody died before they were born.
A piece of churchyard fits everybody.
A piece of churchyard fits everybody.
When the waggon is tilting everybody gives it a shove.
Everybody says it, nobody knows it.
He had need rise betimes who would please everybody.
It is difficult to hide what everybody knows.
Trust everybody, but thyself most.
He who would serve everybody gets thanks from nobody.
Everybody says it, nobody knows it.
When a man is down, everybody runs over him.
Everybody thinks his own cuckoo sings better than another's nightingale.
Everybody wants to be somebody; nobody wants to grow.
A gossiping woman talks of everybody, and everybody of her.
A thief thinks everybody steals.
When everybody says you are drunk, go to sleep.
Tell everybody your business and the devil will do it for you.
He has need rise betimes that would please everybody.
Where all limp, everybody thinks he walks straight.
Better to be a cuckold and not know it than to not be one and everybody say so.
I am dead. It is as if everybody were dead. Let the man left behind shut the door if he wants to.
The thief believes that everybody steals.
In the mirror everybody sees his best friend.
He must rise betimes who would please everybody.
He had need rise early who would please everybody.
Everybody is wise after the thing has happened.
One cannot please everybody and one's father.
The fox thinks everybody eats poultry like himself.
When the tree is down everybody runs to the branches.
The bad man thinks that everybody looks like him.
He has much to do who would please everybody.
What belongs to everybody belongs to nobody.
What three know, everybody knows.
Jupiter himself cannot please everybody.
What everybody says must be true.
Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son.
Everybody laughs in the same language.
What everybody says must be true.
A piece of churchyard fits everybody.
Everybody cries for his own dead.
We must not expect everything, everywhere, and from everybody.
Everyone thinks his own spit tastes good.
A woman who offers sex to everyone will get kicked by everyone.
No one likes to eat crumbs from a feast; everyone likes to sit at the table.
If everyone is going to dance, who, then, would watch?
'tis not for everyone to catch a salmon.
Everyone is wise until he speaks.
His own wound is what everyone feels soonest.
If you let everyone walk over you, then you become a carpet.
Not much is achieved where everyone gives the orders.
A beautiful woman belongs to everyone; an ugly one is yours alone.
If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity.
After a battle, everyone is a general.
Everyone tries to make the water flow to his mill.
Everyone wants to live long, but no one wants to be called old.
Rain falls on everyone, but one person gets wetter than the rest.
Everyone thinks his own burden is heavy.
A thread from everyone will make a shirt for the needy.
Not everyone who has a cowl on is a monk.
Let everyone pick his own nose.
When money talks, everyone else is silent.
Everyone knows where his own shoe pinches him.
Everyone makes firewood of a fallen tree.
Everyone is as god made him and very often worse.
Everyone is the son of his own works.
Everyone stones the tree that bears fruit.
A canoe does not know who is king. When it turns over, everyone gets wet.
Greet everyone cordially when you don't know who your in-laws are going to be.
A child is a child of everyone.
When a neighbor gets divorced everyone thinks of his own wife.
Everyone carries around his own witches.
Everyone should contribute when collection is made.
If everyone swept the pavement in front of his house, the whole street would be clean.
If you have figs in your knapsack, everyone will want to be your friend.
Everyone must row with the oars they have.
Everyone puts his fault on the times.
Take wisdom from the wise - not everyone who rides a horse is a jockey.
Everyone must pay his debt to nature.
Everyone is glad to see a knave caught in his own trap.
Everyone is emperor on his own ground.
If everyone were wise, a fool would be the prize.
Something to everyone is good division.
Everyone is nice until the cow gets into the garden.
Everyone lays a burden on the willing horse.
Not everyone who sings a lullaby stays awake.
You can't please everyone.
In a breadless home, everyone complains and nobody is right.
If everyone swept in front of his house, the whole town would be clean.
When I had money everyone called me brother.
Everyone is tempted to evil.
Fate throws fortune, but not everyone catches.
I met a hundred men going to Delhi and everyone is my brother.
When the tree is down, everyone runs to it with a hatchet to cut wood.
Everyone loves justice in the affairs of another.
Everyone thinks his own cross is heaviest.
After the ship has sunk, everyone knows how she might have been saved.
Even God cannot satisfy everyone.
To follow everyone is wrong, to follow no one is worse.
The world is wide to everyone.
Everyone cries with their eyes.
Everyone drinks with their mouth.
The sun shines for everyone.
Everyone knows what's cooking in their pot.
Everyone gets argr as he gets older.
Death finds everyone and the earth renews itself.
Everyone knows the bear, but the bear knows no one.
Everyone takes his pleasure where he finds it.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
Everyone loves the tree that gives him shelter.
Everyone admires his own character.
Each to his own and God watching over everyone.
A rule isn't unfair if it applies to everyone.
The first camel in the train holds everyone up, but it is the last which gets the beating.
Everyone is the age of their heart.
From the fallen tree everyone makes firewood.
The lion believes that everyone shares his state of mind.
If you would be a good judge, pay attention to what everyone says.
Everyone has their own way of killing fleas.
Everyone who is successful must have dreamed of something.
Everyone will sit on a little donkey.
Death's ladder is there for everyone to climb.
If everyone thought the same way, no goods would ever be sold.
The mind is like a bag; everyone has one.
Everyone cut the grass. Cut the grass. Let no one call the others 'Prisoners'.
It may not pay to weigh everyone in the same scales.
Everyone encounters tribbles occasionally.
If everyone helps to hold up the sky, then one person does not become tired.
No one will say, "My father is incontinent." Everyone will say, "He is a man of advice and wisdom."
Excuses are like as*holes, everyone has one, and they all stink.
Everyone pushes a falling fence.
He who has done evil, expects evil.
A witch-wife and an evil is three-halfpence worse than the devil.
A small evil may be a great good.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
Do not always expect good to happen, but do not let evil take you by surprise.
Look for the good, not the evil, in the conduct of members of the family.
The mouth prays to Buddha, but the heart is full of evil.
Evil words corrupt good manners.
Goodness shouts. Evil whispers.
There's no evil that lasts a hundred years, nor a body that can endure it.
Evil falls on him who goes to seek it.
There is no evil that comes without something good.
Money is a good servant, but an evil master.
He who is accustomed to evil is offended by good.
There is not the thickness of a peso between good and evil.
Evil words fill some with astonishment.
Who has not done any evil act, his or her heart may be found right.
Those who digs an evil hole will fall into it.
He who ridicules the good will be overtaken by evil.
The mouth is the door of evil.
A face that never laughs betrays an evil heart.
If you see wrongdoing or evil and say nothing against it, you become its victim.
Evil to him who evil does.
For every evil under the sun there is a remedy or there is none.
The love of evil is the root of all money.
One evil breeds another.
A good man in an evil society seems the greatest villain of all.
Money is the root of all evil.
As love thinks no evil, so envy speaks no good.
Evil people know one another.
Evil is of old date.
One does evil enough who does nothing good.
How many daily read the Bible, and yet pursue their course of evil.
Idleness is the root of all evil.
Who does not punish evil, invites it.
There is no thing wickeder than a woman of evil temper.
Thinking evil is much the same as doing it.
From evil, the less.
Everyone is tempted to evil.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth.
Never do evil that good may come of it.
Evil be to him who evil thinks.
Evil does are evil dreaders.
Out of a great evil often comes a great good.
Goodness speaks in a whisper, evil shouts.
Evil gun powder doesn't go away easily.
Of evil grain no good seed can come.
It is more fun doing evil than putting it right.
He who has had no experience of evil cannot know the worth of what is good.
He who does no evil does a lot of good.
Repay evil with good, and hell will not claim you.
The seed of all evil is laziness.
Who has done evil will answer for evil.
If you wish someone evil, give him a horse, and if you wish him more evil, give him two horses.
To do nothing teaches evil.
A great book is a great evil.
Thistles and thorns prick sore, but evil tongues prick even more.
To do nothing teacheth to do evil.
Bear with evil and expect good.
There is only one good - knowledge; there is only one evil - ignorance.
He who does evil to others, does it to himself.
Clay and lime conceal much evil.
Better suffer a known evil than change for uncertain good.
If relatives help each other, what evil can hurt them?
Evil penetrates like a needle and then becomes like an oak tree.
Evil enters like a needle and spreads like an oak tree.
Evil enters like a needle and spreads like an oak tree.
He who walks the path of evil comes upon an evil end.
Do not speak of evil for it creates curiosity in the hearts of the young.
The heart of an evil person is never pure.
A big log is a shame to the fire, an evil person is a shame to the house.
The betrothed of good is evil; the betrothed of life is death; the betrothed of love is divorce.
He who goes to Our Lady of Muxima with an evil heart risks being drowned crossing the river to get there.
Wounded to death by the words of an evil woman.
Tell not ever an evil man if misfortunes thee befall.
De devil does find work for evil hands to do.
No evil, but only the good will last.
The leopard's skin is beautiful, but his heart evil.
There is no evil without goodness.
There is nothing so evil as the mind of a virtuous woman.
The evil spirit of a man is a man.
A good purpose is like a doctor and evil purpose corrupts.
Good and evil will never mix.
An evil Indian but his bussiness is good.
Virtuous for ten years is still not enough; evil for one day is too much already.
Do good, reap good; do evil, reap evil.
The evil is dreaded by men but not heaven; the kind-hearted is cheated by mortals but not God.
For the sake of one good action, a hundred evil ones should be forgotten.
To deny everything is to confess everything.
Not everything that shines is gold.
Water washes up everything but shame.
No one can do nothing and no one can do everything.
It takes two days to learn everything about a man; to know animals you will need more time.
If you believe everything you read, you had better not read.
You cannot hang everything on a single peg.
You cannot hang everything on one nail.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
Everything dear is a woman's fancy.
Everything troubles you and the cat breaks your heart.
He who tries a bit of everything accomplishes much of nothing.
Not everything that's allowed is best.
The tree casts its shadow on everything, even upon the woodcutter.
Without love everything is in vain.
To long for everything: sorrow; to accept everything: joy.
The heart at rest sees a feast in everything.
Everything new is beautiful.
Everything is of every year.
Everything may be repaired except the neckbone.
Not everything, which is bad, comes to hurt us.
To know everything is to know nothing.
Not everything that is good to eat is good to talk about.
Not everything you hear is good for conversation.
Children who get everything they ask for seldom succeed in life.
Keep your eye on girls that don't tell their mothers everything.
Everything has an end with the exception of God.
Everything has an end except God.
Everything has a wherefore.
Everything has two handles.
Everything passes; everything wears out; everything breaks.
The end is good, everything is good.
Everything wears away from use.
The child who is given everything he asks for usually won't succeed in life.
Everything is formed by habit, even praying.
Not everything can be seen, but everything exists.
When one shuts one eye, one does not hear everything.
If you close one eye, you will not hear everything.
Everything has an end.
Fire purges everything.
There is a remedy for everything, could we but hit upon it.
Everything worthwhile has a fence around it, but there is always a gate and a key.
Money talks - everything else walks.
Give some people everything you have and they still want the moon.
Everything comes to him who waits.
The poor man wants much, the miser everything.
There is help for everything, except death.
Everything has an end--except a sausage, which has two.
Everything would be well were there not a "but.”.
Could everything be done twice, everything would be done better.
'tis afterwards that everything is understood.
Truth stands when everything else falls.
He knows the price of everything and the value of nothing.
Of everything else the newest; of friends, the oldest.
Water washes everything.
There is a remedy for everything; it is called death.
Everything is good in its season.
Everything may be borne except good fortune.
Gold does not buy everything.
The salt of patience seasons everything.
To a young heart everything is sport.
To him who watches, everything reveals itself.
Everything is good as it is.
Everything is pardoned the brave..
Of everything else the newest; of friends, the oldest.
Death rights everything.
Who is tender in everything is a fool in everything.
With everything Messina has the port, but for beautiful Palermo it is always just an orchard.
You find everything when you are spring cleaning.
Money isn't everything, but it's way ahead of whatever is in second place.
Everything goes by favour and cousinship.
Everything may be bought except day and night.
Everything in time comes to him who knows how to wait.
There will be a replacement for everything.
Think everything carefully before committing yourself because there is no point for regretting it later.
Not everything is a mermaid that dives into the water.
Everything is funny as long as it happens to someone else.
Everything tastes bitter to him with gall in his mouth.
When gold speaks, everything else is silent.
Not everything that shines is gold.
Everything in its season, and turnips in Advent.
There is a time for everything.
There is a time when nothing should be said, there is a time when some things may be said. but there is indeed no time in which everything can be said.
For the lazy and the poor, everything always takes twice the effort.
If you want to live in peace, you must not tell everything that you know, nor judge everything that you see.
In this treacherous world there is neither truth nor lie; everything is like the color of the crystal through which you gaze.
You already possess everything necessary to become great.
Everything the power does, it does in a circle.
Experience keeps a dear school.
We start as fools and become wise through experience.
Age brings experience, and a good mind wisdom.
Don't just take love, experience it.
Better than the young man's knowledge is the old man's experience.
Experience is the father of wisdom.
Experience is the comb that nature gives us when we are bald.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
Experience is a comb which fate gives to a man when his hair is all gone.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
Experience is the father of wisdom and memory the mother.
A proverb is the child of experience.
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
To deceive a diplomat speak the truth, he has no experience with it.
Experience runs a valuable school, but fools learn in no other.
Experience is more important than theory.
Experience is what you get when you didn't get what you wanted.
The dying cannot leave their wisdom or experience to their heirs.
He who has had no experience of evil cannot know the worth of what is good.
If you want to experience the pains of hell, spend winter in Messina and summer in Palermo.
A little bit of experience is better than a barrel full of knowledge.
Proverbs are the daughters of daily experience.
No matter how successful a person is, he will experience some bad things too.
The horses of hope gallop, but the asses of experience go slowly.
A single bad experience is worth a thousand threats.
Experience is not always the kindest of teachers, but it is surely the best.
A proverb is a short sentence based on long experience.
Death is an experience best shared.
Experience is the mother of science.
To a seamen of Kwale, death by water is common experience.
Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald.
Book stands by itself and experience stands by itself.
He who has got experience can milk a running cow.
A thorn of experience is worth a wilderness of advice.
A wise man learns by the experiences of others; an ordinary man learns by his own experience; a fool learns by nobody's experiences.
A thimbleful of experience is worth a tubful of knowledge.
Some folks speak from experience; others, from experience, don't speak.
Wide experience makes for deep tolerance.
Experience is the mistress of fools.
Experience is the mother of knowledge.
Not a few proverbs are dear children of experience.
The tongue of experience utters the most truth.
Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone.
Experience is the teacher of jesters and the intelligence of the wise.
Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
This is, what we experience, this is to be liked.
Experience may teach a fool.
Do you want to experience real thirst? Then try eating bitter cardoons and roasted fava beans.
Experience is the best teacher.
There is no knowledge without experience.
They are people of experience who do not sleep at a strange place.
Experience costs blood.
One bad experience is worth more than a thousand threats.
Believe him who speaks from experience.
Experience is the best teacher.
Experience purchased by suffering teaches wisdom.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
It is best to learn wisdom by the experience of others.
Experience is a revelation in the light of which we renounce our errors of youth for those of age. (Ambrose Bierce)
An ounce of experience is worth a pound of theory.
By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
A proverb is a short, pithy saying that expresses a traditionally held truth or piece of advice, based on common sense or experience.
Experience keeps no school, she teaches her pupils singly.
He who doesn't want to listen will have to experience.
Experience is the best teacher.
Experience teaches fools.
The one who has had no experience of evil cannot know good.
You need to first experience adversity, before you can handle high praise.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
There's no substitute for experience.
"Experience is the best teacher." (i.e., "Practice makes perfect.")
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.
To have two eyes is cause for pride; but to have one eye is better than to have none.
A tear in the eye is a wound in the heart.
I tried to draw the eyebrow, but I ended up poking the eye.
A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
The eye that sees all things else, sees not itself.
The loveliest of faces are to be seen by moonlight, when one sees half with the eye and half with the fancy.
A rich widow weeps in one eye and laughs with the other.
Wipe your sore eye with your elbow.
A lawyer looks at you with one eye, but he looks at your pocket with two.
Keep your eye on girls that don't tell their mothers everything.
A large eye does not mean keen vision.
Hew not too high, lest a chip fall in thine eye.
Away from the eye, out of the heart.
Keep your eye on the ball.
The idiot who has his eye on your wife is like a blood sucking fly.
Your eye is the only way you can judge things.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
Like the chameleon, one eye on the future, one eye on the past.
The proportion of things thrill the eye.
It's the eye that eats.
The eye is the one that eats.
The eye will often wander the road that love has taught.
Away from the eye, away from the mind.
Every eye has its look.
If you feed the mouth, the eye becomes shy.
The eye of a master does more work than both his hands.
The eye cannot rise above the eyebrow.
The eye sees, but the hand can't reach.
If the eye do not admire, the heart will not desire.
If you close one eye, you will not hear everything.
My fist is in his mouth, his fist is in my eye.
A monkey in its mother's eye is like a gazelle.
A man with a cross eye shall be put to the torch.
The eye never forgets what the heart has seen.
When you go among one-eyed people, put out your own eye.
An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
The eye that is still says more than a chattering mouth.
A wanton eye is the messenger of a lusting heart.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
One eye is a better witness than two ears.
One bad eye spoils the other.
The stomach is easier filled than the eye.
A friend's eye is a good mirror.
If you have a roving eye, it's no use having the other one fixed on Heaven.
One eye in the corner is sharper than two about the house.
The eye should be blind in the home of another.
he tried to pluck under her/his eyebrow, but blinded the eye.
Rather a husband with one eye than with one son.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
The envious man's face grows lean and his eye swells.
The horse's best allowance is his master's eye.
To have eye one on the cat and another on the frying-pan.
One eye of the master sees more than four eyes of his servants.
A sailor must have his eye trained to the rocks and sands as well as the north star.
In the country of the blind blessed is he that hath one eye.
Never rub your eye but with your elbow.
What the eye sees not the heart rues not.
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
If you are travelling in the blind man's country close one eye.
The seller has one eye, the buyer, one hundred.
The owner's eye fattens the horse.
The old man looks death in the eye, the young man keeps him behind his back.
Who reminds of an old thing will have his eye picked out.
Who sees a mote in other's eye will not see a beam in his own eye.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
The best fodder is the mater's eye.
Keeping an eye on the sail.
The master's eye and foot are the best manure for the field.
Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
With seven nurses the child loses its eye.
Who reminds old, will be deprived of his eye.
In other persons' eye one can see a mote, in one's own – cannot see a log.
Further from the eye – closer to the heart.
I thought to cross myself, and I put out my eye.
The eye of the master does more than his two hands.
The best mirror is a friend's eye.
An old ape hath an old eye.
A friend's eye is a good mirror.
The eye cannot penetrate darkness.
The eye of God is large.
Judge not by the eye but by the heart.
A sharp knife is nothing without a sharp eye.
Better a handful of dried figs and content with that, than to own the gate of peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
What the eye does not admire the heart does not desire.
A good surgeon must have a hawk's eye, a lion's heart and a woman's hand.
What you don't see with your eyes, don't witness with your mouth.
Instead of opening your mouth, open your eyes.
Saints fly only in the eyes of their disciples.
No better witnesses than your own eyes.
Do not slaughter a calf before its mother's eyes.
Do not walk into a snake pit with your eyes open.
Whether it rains or stops raining, the lentils have two eyes.
Eyes that see do not grow old.
Whoever has no children has no light in his eyes.
Fear has big eyes.
The eyes are of little use if the mind be blind.
Let him speak who has seen with his eyes.
To have two eyes is cause for pride; but to have one eye is better than to have none.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes, the horse thief not one.
Taking aim for too long can ruin your eyes.
The stranger has big eyes but he doesn't see anything.
Better to be guilty in the eyes of men than in the eyes of God.
If you are dancing with your rivals, don't close your eyes.
Never buy through your ears but through your eyes.
Ravens do not peck each other's eyes out.
If you enter the city of the blind, cover your eyes.
The eyes can do a thousand things that the fingers can't.
Two eyes see better than only one.
Pepper in someone else's eyes is a salve.
The eyes do not see what the mind does not want.
One may have good eyes and yet see nothing.
When you go to buy, use your eyes, not your ears.
Water in the mouth before eating; water in the eyes when the bill comes.
He who blows into the wind gets smoke in his eyes.
Keep both eyes open before you are married and afterwards close only one.
Bushes have ears, walls have eyes.
In the eyes of its mother every turkey is a swan.
It is easier to fill twenty bellies than one pair of eyes.
Eyes are afraid, but hands are doing the job.
Eyes that don't see have less to lament.
In the boss's eyes you'll always see ambition.
A monkey is a gazelle in its mother's eyes.
To deny God's existence is like jumping with your eyes closed.
The blow is taken on the nose but it's the eyes that cry.
Two eyes see better than one.
The camel never sees his own hump, but that of his brother is always in his eyes.
In the eyes of its mother every beetle is a gazelle.
He is a good storyteller who can turn a man's ears into eyes.
When the eyes see nothing, the heart feels nothing.
Keep your eyes on the sun and you will not see the shadows.
Dance, father, people's eyes don't eat, they just stare.
If you open the eyes of a blind man he wants to go back to the darkness.
When you go to buy, use your eyes not your ears.
It is better for the eyes to die than the heart.
It is better to lose your eyes than to lose your heart.
In the eyes of a lover a pock-marked face is one with pretty dimples.
Day has its eyes, night has its ears.
Seeing is poison for the eyes.
The smoke caused by meat which is roasted does not cause pain in the eyes of a hungry person.
In the eyes of the mouse the cat is a lion.
Hawk will not pick out hawk's eyes.
Blind eyes see better than blind hearts.
When anger blinds the eyes, truth disappears.
A close mouth and open eyes never did any one harm.
All are not asleep who have their eyes shut.
Abroad one has a hundred eyes, at home not one.
Don't rest your eyes beyond what is your own.
His eyes are like two burnt holes in a blanket.
Nature breaks through the eyes of the cat.
Nature shines through the cat's eyes.
No-one is ever poor who has the sight of his eyes and the use of his feet.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue; to the end we should hear and see more than we speak.
You easily forget the eyes that don't see you any more.
Two eyes see more than one.
Far from the eyes, far from the heart.
I meant to cross myself and put out one of my eyes.
You will not see many with green eyes.
Crows do not peck out crow's eyes.
The hen's eyes turn to where she has her eggs.
Anger has no eyes.
The light is painful to sore eyes.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes; the seller but one.
A beetle is a beauty in the eyes of his mother.
Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart.
He who blows dust fills his eyes with it.
Mouth shut and eyes open.
Who buys hath need of eyes.
Do not buy with your ears, but with your eyes.
A crow will not peck out a crow's eyes.
The eyes have one language everywhere.
Listen with your ears, look with your eyes, but keep silent with your mouth.
Your wife's eyes are in your purse.
Open your eyes, not your mouth.
Better to struggle with a sick jackass than carry the wood by yourself.
I would rather be deceived by an intelligent person than by a jackass.
When jackass back strong, dem overload ‘im hamper.
When jackass smell corn, ‘im gallop.
When yu go a jackass yard, yu noh fi chat 'bout big iyaz.
Whoever goes to Palermo and doesn't see Monreale, goes there a jackass and returns a fool.
Conceit is the self satisfaction of a jackass.
Entreat him in jackass fashion; if he won't carry the sack, give him a whack.
The lame jackass enjoys the journey.
If you prune in March you're either a jackass or crazy.
Don't marry a girl who wants strawberries in January.
A warm january; a cold may.
Beautiful may mornings and beautiful january evenings.
May God save us from good weather in January.
Don't let the chicken into the hen house in January.
Throw January cabbages in the garbage.
If it isn't wintry in January then expect the worst in February.
January hoeing fills the basket.
Sardines in January and vopa in March.
A dry January means a filled hayloft.
January commits the sin and May gets blamed.
When gnats swarm in January, the peasant becomes a beggar.
January chicks fill the hen house, August chicks fill the baskets.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
All work and no play makes Jack filthy rich.
Don't learn too much, Jack, else you must do a great deal.
Jack gets on by his stupidity.
Every Jack has his Jill.
Jack is as good as his master.
Jack will never make a gentleman.
Like to like, Jack to Gill, a penny a pair.
A jack of both sides, is before long, trusted by nobody, and abused by both parties.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
Jack of all trades is master of none.
All work and no play make Jack a dull boy.
Jack of all trades and master of None. (18th century)
Jack a dull boy.
What little Jack does not learn, big John will never.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
It is better to be the object of jealousy, than of pity.
Where there's no jealousy, there's no love.
Jealousy is a pain which eagerly seeks what causes pain.
Love's merchandise is jealousy and broken faith.
He who doesn't feel jealousy is not in love.
A neighbour's eye is full of jealousy.
Jealousy is a pain that seeks what caused it.
No jealousy, no love.
Jealousy is a pain seeking its cause.
Love without jealousy is like a pole with no moustache.
There is no love without jealousy.
Love is never without jealousy.
Jealousy is cruel as the grave.
Without jealousy, love would wither.
Love is blind; jealousy sees too much.
Jealousy is nourished by doubt.
There is no love without jealousy.
Jealousy and fear have big eyes.
Where there is no jealousy a small hare's leather is enough to cover four people.
Three that come unbidden – love, jealousy and fear.
What Master Jacky does not learn, Mr. John never knows.
Because of John hating St. John.
What little Johnny has not learned, big John will not know.
John has been to school to learn to be a fool.
Those have most power to hurt us that we love. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Thou wilt scarce be a man before thy mother. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
All political parties die at last of swallowing their own lies. (John Arbuthnot)
Truth lies within a little and certain compass, but error is immense. (Henry St. John)
Go West, young man, go West! (John Soule)
It is always good when a man has two irons in the fire. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
There is no other purgatory but a woman. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
What little Jack does not learn, big John will never.
Because of John hating St.
If you love me, John, your acts will tell me so.
Cook in June and July, dish it out in August and September.
Do not sell sun in July.
April, as you see me; May, as I stay; June, as I am; by July, let everything fly.
In July, store the grain under the bed.
Prepare the sickles in May, use the sickles in June, and in July carry the sickles to the tool shed.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
We have two seasons: winter and the Fourth of July.
In July, shear your rye.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
A jug carries water until its handle breaks off.
The potter drinks water from a broken jug.
Nunziata, fix the salad, a little vinegar, lots of oil, four reckless mouthfuls, and then some drinks from the jug.
A jug that has been mended lasts two hundred years.
Better thin beer than an empty jug.
God gives us milk but no jug.
The weak who opposes the strong, is like the jug that collides with the wall.
One goes to fetch water with a jug for so long, until the handle breaks away.
The jug will hold water until it breaks.
A fool judges people by the presents they give him.
Judges should have two ears, both alike.
Who judges others, condemns himself.
It is the law that judges, not the judge.
If chickens were judges, cockroaches would be sentenced.
He who judges others and never allows to be judged looses friends.
He who judges others condemns himself.
There are three who have to give an accounting to God; the judges, the priests, and the godparents.
He who judges between two friends loses one of them.
Each thief judges by his condition.
He who judges others condemns himself.
Don't make little of your dish, for it may be an ignorant person who judges it.
The jewel is in the lotus.
Difficulties make you a jewel.
The house with an old grandparent harbors a jewel.
Runaway son, a shining jewel; runaway daughter, tarnished.
Silence is a fine jewel for a woman, but it is little worn.
Luck is a lost jewel that memory grinds.
Fair play's a jewel.
None can guess the jewel by the casket.
Silence is a wonderful jewel for a woman but she seldom wears it.
He is as poor as job.
An ill-paying job is better than a lucrative heist.
Eyes are afraid, but hands are doing the job.
He who has no job should search for a camel.
What's a trumpeter's job? To blow.
It takes nine months to have a baby, no matter how many people you put on the job.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
You can't trust that a job will be done properly unless you do it yourself.
A good start is half the job done.
My job is to scream, 'cock-a-doodle-doo'; from then on, it may not dawn.
A good rest is half the job.
If you like what you are doing, nothing is too far and no job is too hard.
A bad job is not as wothless as a good game.
As soon as you have finished a job, you start appreciating the difficulties.
Do a good job of rooting out the turf and you'll prosper enough to enjoy focaccia.
Never send a boy to do a man's job.
They asked the wolf: "Why is your neck thick?", and it said: "I do my job myself, that's why."
A job feeds a man, laziness spoils him.
This person is perfectly suited for the job.
You don't show a fool a job half done.
For a job we need time. For fun we need one hour.
If a job is worth doing, it's worth doing well.
Jest with your equals.
Play not with a man till you hurt him, nor jest till you shame him.
Great men may jest with saints.
Many a true word in spoken in jest.
Many a friend has been lost by a jest, but none has ever been got by one.
He that would jest must take a jest, or else to let it alone were best.
Call your husband cuckold in jest, an he'll never suspect you.
Better lose a jest than a friend.
You can't jest an enemy into a friend, but you can jest a friend into an enemy.
We knock in jest, and it is opened in earnest.
Drop the jest when it is most amusing.
Leave a jest when it pleases lest it turn to earnest.
There is mony a true tale tald in a jest.
For a jest one should not take the arrow out of the quiver.
From a jest comes a strife.
Jest not with the eye, or religion.
There is mony a true tale tauld in jest.
Jest so that it may not turn to earnest.
For a jest one should not take the arrow out of the quiver.
Many a friend has been lost by a jest, but none has ever been got by one.
Better lose a jest than a friend.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
The jar broke and the wine spilled.
An old monkey will not stick his hand into a jar.
You walk so long with a jar for water, until the handle breaks off.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
Don't empty the water jar until the rain falls.
Don't empty the water jar until the rain falls.
You walk so long with a jar for water, until the handle breaks off.
Fire does not burn in a jar.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
Of judgment every one has a stock on hand for sale.
Imagination gallops, judgment merely walks.
A man with good judgment does not make the goat his gardener.
If you marry wise judgment, peace will become your brother-in-law.
Take care when you speak in judgment. Words are powerful weapons.
Venture not to defend what your judgment doubts of.
He that shows his money shows his judgment.
Judgment delayed is judgment avoided.
Listen with each ear, then to judgment.
A baptised jew is a circumcised christian.
Better a Jew without a beard than a beard without a Jew.
The Jew ruins himself with passovers, the Moor with wedding feasts, and the Christian with lawsuits.
Teaching a jew to deal in the market is like teaching grandmother to eat her eggs.
He that would cheat a Jew, must be a Jew.
Gone is gone; no Jew will lend upon it.
If a Jew cannot be a shoemaker, he will dream of being a professor.
I neither give nor take, like a Jew on the Sabbath.
No Jew a fool; no hare lazy.
Always tell the truth in the form of a joke.
A good joke is a penny worth.
When force is imposed, the law is a joke.
A camel does not joke about the hump of another camel.
A Joke may have children born.
There is no worse joke than a true one.
Cease your jests, there is no joke in being ill-natured.
Joke, joke, discharges pus.
A joke is often the hole through which truth whistles.
He that laughs at his ain joke spoils the sport o't.
Many a friend was lost through a joke, but none was ever gained so.
Marry for money, my little sonny, a rich man's joke is always funny.
Truth may be told in a joke too.
The joke is the weapon of the witty; being serious is the shield of the stupid.
Joke at leisure, ye kenna wha may jybe you.
A joke can break the earring.
A joke must not hit the belly.
A joke driven too far brings home hate.
A poor joke must invent its own laughter.
When an observation by joke is true, it is out of place and ill-natured.
Leave the joke when it pleases the most.
A joke can break the earring.
Each head, a different judgement.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
Temper your enthusiasm with judgement.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgement.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
Good judgement comes from experience, and experience comes from poor judgement.
He hath good judgement that relieth not wholly on his own.
A woman is the last judgement of the man.
Don't pass judgement on a work of art if you don't know how to create it.
Everyone blames his memory, but never his judgement.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
Where the skin of the lion does not suffice, we must join that of the fox.
Join with good men and you will be one of them.
If you don't have a brain, join the army; if you don't have rice, use beans instead.
If you can't beat em, join em.
If you can't beat em, join em.
Drops join to make a stream; ears combine to make a crop.
If the owner of a calabash calls it a worthless calabash, others will join him to use it to pack rubbish.
Dip your paddle in and join the effort.
When the webs of the spider join, they can trap a lion.
You are invited to join the hunt when your nets are in evidence.
If you can't lick 'em, join 'em.
If you can't join them, beat them.
If you can't beat them, join them.
Mountains will never join other mountains but men will confront other men.
Don't join in the celebration or holiday if you feel disgruntled.
Join those who can join sections of a canoe.
If we pay for the music we will join in the dance.
Nobody cares about you and nobody cares about me, so why not join together?
Cook in June and July, dish it out in August and September.
When the olive tree blooms during April, olives are harvested with barrels, when it blossoms in June, they are harvested in handfuls.
Calm weather in June, sets the corn in tune.
Olive flowers in june, olives in the hand.
April, as you see me; May, as I stay; June, as I am; by July, let everything fly.
If March is late in coming, June will suffer.
If the olive trees blossom in April, you'll have enough to collect them with barrels; if they bud in May, you'll have enough to fill a small measure; but if as late as June, you'll only be collecting handfuls.
Prepare the sickles in May, use the sickles in June, and in July carry the sickles to the tool shed.
Flowers in May and fruiting in June.
June rains consume the world.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
June damp and warm does the farmer no harm.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
Though the palm tree in the jungle is big, who knows how big its yield will be?
Little by little, one catches the monkey in the jungle.
The jungle is stronger than the elephant.
If there were no elephant in the jungle, the buffalo would be a great animal.
The lion may be king of the jungle but he knows, he shouldn't stand in the way of the elephant.
Without impalas and hyenas, the lion cannot be the king of the jungle.
Hunt in every jungle, for there is wisdom and good hunting in all of them.
Even if the elephant is thin he is still the lord of the jungle.
A determined hunter is never frightened in the jungle.
When the lion goes astray, all the other animals are king of the jungle.
The world is a journey, the afterworld is home.
Life is a temporary stop, death is the journey home.
When you come back from a long journey, offer your family something though it be only a stone.
The real journey of discovery begins in old age.
A 1000 miles journey starts with a single step.
A roan horse and a black can travel equally far in a day's journey.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with one step.
Even a thousand-mile journey begins with the first step.
A thousand li journey begins with a single step.
To get through the hardest journey we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping.
When a tortoise embarks on a journey he doesn't ask for directions, because he does not want his enemies to know where he's going.
The start of a journey should never be mistaken for success.
Journey and you will find replacement to the ones left behind.
From the promise to the deed is a day's journey.
He owed the devil a journey.
Choose your fellow traveller before you start on your journey.
His door already has the hard part of the journey behind him.
A fall bodes a lucky journey from the house but not toward it.
The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey will seem.
He who is outside his door already has the hard part of his journey behind him.
A wise companion is half the journey.
Wish thy friend joy of his journey, but pray in secret that he have no joy, for then may he return quickly to thee.
The more you ask how far you have to go, the longer your journey seems.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
It is not the destination that is important, but the journey there.
A difficult journey will make you daring and harden your will.
If a man returns from a long journey and no one says welcome back to him he feels like one who has not arrived.
A baby on its mother's back doesn't know the journey is long.
It's the tortoise's shell, ugly and hard that protects its life long journey on earth.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step.
A man knows his companions in a long journey and a small inn.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
Cheerful company shortens the journey.
He who is outside the door has already a good part of his journey behind him.
On a long journey even a straw is heavy.
Good company on a journey is worth a coach.
A child who is carried on the back will not know how far the journey is.
The lame jackass enjoys the journey.
The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey seems.
He who is outside the door has already a good part of his journey behind him.
From to-morrow till to-morrow time goes a long journey.
A pleasant companion on a journey is as good as a postchaise.
If you go to war pray once; if you go on a sea journey pray twice; but pray three times when you are going to be married.
He who takes the wrong road must make his journey twice over.
Nothing is lost on a journey by stopping to pray or to feed your horse.
When the journey is finished to lay up provisions for the journey.
A journey of a thousand miles always begins with a single step.
May your journey be free of incident.
To be sure that your friend is a friend, you must go with him on a journey, travel with him day and night, go with him near and far.
If you go to war pray once if you go on a sea journey pray twice but pray three times if you are going to be married.
The journey is the reward.
A child who is carried on the back will not know how far the journey is.
Success is a journey not a destination.
Let the traveller fainting on his journey take rest under a tree which contains both fruit and shade.
He who sets out on a journey without guidance loses his way.
A lie is like a jump from a high roof.
You cannot jump higher than your head.
There's a risk in every jump.
You jump up, but you come down all the same.
A cat will teach her young ones all the tricks, except how to jump backwards.
Jump over a log but not over your neighbor's word.
By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree.
By trying repeatedly, the monkey learns how to jump from the tree.
If the goat would not jump around, she wouldn't break her leg.
Necessity makes the frog jump.
Even the goats will jump on a slanted tree.
When the lion is dead the hares jump upon his carcase.
The frog does not jump in the daytime without reason.
Wait until the tree has fallen before you jump over it.
If the mare jumps, the filly will jump higher.
The frog will jump back into the pool, although it sits on a golden stool.
Where the hedge is lowest men jump over.
The one who used to jump across the stream may find herself wading through..
By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree.
Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling.
Why jump in the water before the ship turns over.
If rain bothers you, you can always jump into the sea.
If you get rich, be in a dark corner when you jump for joy.
Foolhardiness made the rat try to jump over the fireplace.
Don't jump from the frying pan into the fire.
Wait for the cat to jump.
He who wants to jump high must take a long run.
Let a dog get at a dish of honey, and he will jump in with both legs.
Ambition and fleas both jump high.
Drive a rat into a corner, and he'll jump at you.
Though you seat the frog on a golden stool, he'll soon jump off again into the pool.
He who wants to do a good jump must sometimes take a step back.
All the goats jump onto leaning trees.
Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling.
A sly cat makes a big jump.
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
A toad does not jump around in the daytime, unless something is after its life.
You can't jump from one tree to another but you can from one man to another.
Who does not jump into water will not learn to swim.
The elders of the council do not jump over a brook.
A man cannot jump over his own shadow.
Explaining something to an ignorant person is harder than making a camel jump over a ditch.
The elders of the council do not jump over a brook.
If the goat would not jump around, she wouldn't break her leg.
Good days jump out of hands.
The cat would eat fish, too, but it wouldn't jump into the ocean.
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
Every joy will follow in grief's footsteps.
The joy of a poor man does not last long.
To long for everything: sorrow; to accept everything: joy.
A fight between grasshoppers is a joy to the crow.
Grief shared is half grief; joy shared is double joy.
May your life be like a wildflower, growing freely in the beauty and joy of each day.
Wise rising gives joy.
When a son attends to his father, it is a twofold joy for both; when wise things are prescribed to him, the son is.
Friendship doubles joy and halves grief.
Some will learn through pain and sorrow, others through joy and laughter, so it is written.
A stolen object brings no joy to one's heart.
Sorrow doesn't kill - reckless joy does.
Into the house where joy lives, happiness will gladly come.
The more sorrow one encounters, the more joy one can contain.
A tailless dog cannot express his joy.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
A cheerful wife is a joy of life.
The joy of the heart makes the face fair.
Patience is the key of joy; but haste is the key to sorrow.
Joy surfeited turns to sorrow.
Joy and sorrow are to-day and to-morrow.
The bridge between joy and sorrow is not long. Confidence begets confidence.
Joy must have sorrow.
Joy and sorrow sleep in the same bed.
Shared joy is a double joy; shared sorrow is half a sorrow.
Shared joy is double joy.
The fear of death takes away the joy of living.
Poverty is no joy, although it sometimes makes you laugh.
Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.
After a storm fair weather, after sorrow joy.
Every season brings its joy.
Better joy in a cottage than sorrow in a palace.
The heir's tears are but a mask to disguise his joy.
Wish thy friend joy of his journey, but pray in secret that he have no joy, for then may he return quickly to thee.
A stolen object does not fill ones heart with joy.
A wise teacher makes learning a joy.
No choice is ever wholly unregretted, each brings more joy and more sorrow than we can foresee.
Life has always been a mixture of joy and pain, wealth and poverty.
One joy can drive away a hundred sorrows.
A day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy.
In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter.
A one joy scatter a hundred grieves.
Don't promise something when you are full of joy; don't answer letters when you are full of anger.
Tears cannot bring you joy but joy can bring you tears.
Who pleasure gives shall joy receive.
Sorrow remembered sweetens present joy.
Joy was born a twin.
One year of joy, another of comfort, and all rest of content.
When joy is in the parlour, sorrow is in the passage.
Children are certain sorrow, but uncertain joy.
Joy is like the ague; one good day between two bad ones.
The First glass is for health, the second - for joy, the third - for fun, the fourth - for madness.
A child is a certain sorrow and uncertain joy.
Hunting, hawking, and paramours, for one joy an hundred displeasures.
A house without a dog, a cat, or a little child is a house without joy or laughter.
Peace is the well from which the stream of joy runs.
One for sorrow, two for joy, three for a girl, four for a boy, five for silver, six for gold, and seven for a secret that must never be told.
The body of joy is not so big.
Friends are needed both for joy and for sorrow.
One does not live on joy or die of sorrow.
There is no joy without alloy.
No joy without alloy.
Unshared joy is an unlighted candle.
Hidden joy is an extinguished candle.
We are content to forgo joy when pain is also lost.
The intemperate die young, and rarely en joy old age.
Joy shared, joy doubled: sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
A husband has two days of joy: bringing his bride to home and bringing her to grave.
Why to be a sorrow to someone when you could be a joy to many?
Long cry after joy.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
A happy memory is a joy forever.
No choice is ever wholly unregretted, each brings more joy.
The joy of the heart makes the face fair.
If you want peace, prepare justice.
Injustice all around is justice!
Where force rules, justice does not exist.
Clemency is the support of justice.
Justice is a good thing, only not in my house, but in my neighbor's.
Bribery is the enemy of justice.
Fidelity is a noble virtue, yet justice is nobler still.
Fear no man, and do justice to all men.
Justice oft leans to the side where the purse pulls.
Favour oft avails more than justice or reason.
For lack of men they made my father a justice.
If old age was the same as wisdom, any old donkey would be a celebrated Justice.
Justice begins at home.
Much law, but little justice.
Everyone loves justice in the affairs of another.
No one likes justice brought home to his own door.
Every one likes justice in another's house, none in his own.
Money and friendship break the arms of justice.
Better to have a handful of might than a sack of justice.
Kings matthias is dead, justice is lost.
The hungarian justice is three.
Justice knows no friendship.
Justice, but not in my own house.
It is sheer folly to expect justice from the unprincipled.
Justice becomes injustice when it makes two wounds on a head which only deserves one.
One justice can overpower a hundred evils.
Maize cannot get justice in a chicken's court.
Without justice, courage is weak.
Let justice be done though the heavens fall.
Justice delayed is justice denied.
An ounce of favor goes farther than a pound of justice.
He that buyeth magistracy will seek justice.
Favour and gifts disturb justice.
Where might is the master, justice is the servant.
The more laws the less justice.
Justice has a waxen nose.
Who refuses to submit to justice, must not complain of oppression.
Justice is better than admiration.
Justice is better than admiration If you are going to kill, then kill an elephant; if you are going to steal make sure it's a treasure.
Conscience is the chamber of justice.
Summary justice is a summary offense.
Justice and fire, keep them at arms length.
Justice and health, woe to the one who seeks them.
People with money and friends don't esteem justice.
An ounce of favour goes further, or is worth more, than a pound of justice.
Forgiveness is a pillar of justice.
When violence comes into the house, law and justice leave through the chimney.
Paper and ink and little justice.
Peralvillo justice: hang a man first and try him afterwards.
Justice is exercised in the proper prevention, rather than in the severe punishment, of crime.
Limping justice ne'er will fail To hunt out the longest trail.
Justice pleaseth few in their own house.
A judge who despises justice, cursing with the right hand, and the chasing away of a younger son from the house of his father are abominations to Ninurta.
Utu, the lord who loves justice, extirpates wickedness and prolongs righteousness.
(God's justice and love) smite with one hand, and embrace with the other.
Fear no man, and do justice to all men.
Without justice, courage is weak.
Rather the cruelty of the Turks than the justice of the Bedouins.
No merriment in the seat of justice.
All love justice in the houses of others to no one is it pleasing in his own house.
Much law, little justice.
The justice of God is better than the justice of the world.
Justice watches the eye like a bird.
"More law, less justice." (Cicero, De officiis I, 10, 33)
Judge not the dog by its hair.
When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
Blind men can judge no colours.
Judge not your beauty by the number of people who look at you, but rather by the number of people who smile at you.
You must judge a woman by the taste of her soup.
Success to you! God speed the craft! as the hangman said to the judge.
Never stand in front of a judge or behind a donkey.
If the pocket is empty, the judge is deaf.
When you meet a man judge him by his clothes, when you leave a man judge him by his heart.
You judge the way you live.
Don't judge a man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins.
Your eye is the only way you can judge things.
Do not judge a man by the whiteness of his turbin, soap is bought on credit.
If the judge is against you, you should withdraw the complaint.
Don't ask a dog to judge between a pillar and a tree.
Never judge things of which you only know the shadow.
Even the judge was drunk when the wine was free.
You must judge a man by the work of his hands.
Don't judge a man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins.
In order to judge another's feelings, remember your own.
Judge not, lest ye be judged.
Blind men should not judge of colours.
He hit me, started to cry, and went straight to the judge to sue me.
I am a judge of cresses, said the peasant, as he was eating hemlock.
As you live yourself, you judge your neighbor.
No one is a good judge of his own case.
If you would be a good judge, hear what every one says.
Never judge a book by its cover.
A blind man is not judge of colours.
He wastes his tears who weeps before the judge.
It is better to be condemned by many doctors than by one judge.
Tenderness can be a bad judge.
It is the law that judges, not the judge.
Don't judge your life before it has ended.
Fear the law not the judge.
A judge and a stomach do their asking in silence.
A golden handshake convinces even the most skeptical judge.
Tell God the truth, but give money to the judge.
Do not judge a person until the lid of his coffin is closed.
Do not judge your neighbor until you walk two moons in his moccasins.
You must not tell all that you know, nor judge all that you see, if you would live in peace.
The good judge starts at home.
If you would be a good judge, pay attention to what everyone says.
Judge not by the eye but by the heart.
Do not judge your neighbor until you walk two moons in his moccasins.
The judge also dies.
The poor man pleads, the judge listens.
A judge knows nothing unless it has been explained to him three times.
One can easily judge the character of a person by the way they treat people who can do nothing for them.
Never judge from appearances.
The judge also dies.
The cockroach cannot be innocent in a court where the hen is judge.
Judge a Dutchman by what he means, not by what he says.
Judge men by their deeds, not be their creeds.
At the end of the work, you may judge the workman.
Never judge by first impressions.
No one ought to be judge in his own cause.
When the judge's mule dies, everyone goes to the funeral; when the judge himself dies, no one does.
Judge a man by the reputation of his enemies.
Judge not of a ship as she lies on the stocks.
Don't judge the dog by its fur.
God help the sheep when the wolf is judge.
You must judge a maiden at the kneading trough, and not in a dance.
He who is judge between two friends, loses one of them.
Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee.
Don't judge any man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins.
Don't judge a horse by its harness.
There can be no judge without an accused.
He who is his own judge never finds a reason to condemn.
Do not judge your fellow man until you have stood in his place.
Judge a man not by the words of his mother, but from the comments of his neighbors.
First improve yourself, and then judge others.
Even an owl is a judge in her cave.
Don't judge every one by your own measure.
Blind men should judge no colors.
Don't judge the dog from its hairs.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
Blind men shoulna be judge o' colours.
Judge wine by its taste, and bread by its color.
Who wants to judge needs to listen to the parties.
Don't judge a dog by its hair.
Never judge a reindeer from close by when you got it from a rich man because you may find that some of the antlers are missing.
A dealer in onions is a good judge of scallions.
A foolish judge passes brief sentence.
Tell God the truth, but give the judge money.
The belly is like a judge that is silent yet still asks questions.
The idea came after the drunkness passed away.
What makes us discontented with our condition is the absurdly exaggerated idea we have of the happiness of others.
It is a bad idea to take a thorn out of someone else's foot and put it into your own.
A late repentance is a dogs idea.
Every fool follows their idea.
The bride's getting ready but the groom has no idea.
If you think you have someone eating out of your hands, it is a good idea to count your fingers.
The miller has a fat pig, but I've no idea by whose grain it is fed.
Think first your idea, for later regrets are useless.
The idiot who has his eye on your wife is like a blood sucking fly.
An idiot is eloquent when he stays silent.
A man profits more by the sight of an idiot than by the orations of the learned.
A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot; a dog travelling with good men becomes a rational being.
One idiot can ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
A christian forgives, an idiot forgets.
Parrots are green everywhere; the idiot loses wherever he is.
You need your wits about you the most when you are dealing with an idiot.
A woman that always laughs is everybody's wife; a man that is always laughing is an idiot.
The soul of an idiot is always dancing on the end of his tongue.
Complete idiot who can keep silent, to a wise man is similar.
One idiot throws a stone in the well, and it takes a hundred wise men to (try to) get it out.
When God wants to punish an idiot, He teaches them a few words of Hebrew.
Be aware of the idiot, for he is like an old dress.
A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot.
It is better to be in hell with a wise man than in heaven with an idiot.
Cure the illness that is not yet an illness.
There is no cure for an unknown illness.
Man is the instrument of illness.
The doctor demands his fees whether he has killed the illness or the patient.
Illness tells us what we are.
The flavour of health is given by an illness.
Just as a medicine may not cure a serious illness, wine will certainly not dispel your grief.
Illness comes in by mouth; ills come out by it.
An illness comes by the pound and goes away by the ounce.
Who has seen death will be content with illness.
His illness is more mental than bodily.
An apple a day turns away illness.
Illness is the steelyard of friendship.
There's no illness that lasts one hundred years, or body that can resist it.
Those who do not find time for exercise will have to find time for illness.
One can cause the illness which he wanted to cure.
An illness comes by the pound and goes away by the ounce.
A good name is a second inheritance.
A Good son needs no inheritance, the bad needs none.
First prove your brotherhood, then claim inheritance.
He who comes for the inheritance is often made to pay for the funeral.
In the division of inheritance, friendship standeth still.
The earth is not an inheritance of our fathers, nor one for our sons.
A clever man's inheritance is found in every country.
Service is not inheritance.
He who comes for the inheritance is often made to pay for the funeral.
Come for your inheritance and you may have to pay for the funeral.
When someone claims an inheritance, he sometimes has to pay for the funeral.
Cold strengthens you more than hunger.Yiddish Proverbs
Come for your inheritance and you may have to pay for the funeral.
Ingratitude is a kind of weakness; the clever are never ungrateful.
If you say that he is guilty of ingratitude, you need say no more.
Gratitude is the least of virtues; ingratitude is the worst of vices.
True generosity is the ability to accept ingratitude.
Ingratitude sickens benevolence.
Ingratitude is the world's reward.
Ingratitude is the world's reward.
Gratitude is the least of virtues, but ingratitude the worst of vices.
Ingratitude is the mother of every vice.
Ingratitude is the daughter of pride.
We find much ingratitude, and create more.
Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author.
Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author.
True generosity is the ability to accept ingratitude.
Rise early, live soberly, and apply yourself with industry.
All things are easy to industry, all things difficult to sloth.
Industry keeps the body healthy, . . . and the purse full.
Industry need not wish.
Industry is fortune's right hand and frugality her left.
Industry is the parent of fortune.
When industry goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window.
Rise early, live soberly, and apply yourself with industry.
Industry keeps the body healthy.
Bustle is not industry.
Anger is often more hurtful than the injury that caused it.
A little injury dismays, and a great one stills.
He who doth the injury never forgives the injured man.
Injury is to be measured by malice.
No one feels the pains that arise from unintended injury.
Jokes, which carry injury with them, are never agreeable.
Avarice commonly occasions injury to the person who displays it.
A single slip may cause lasting injury.
A kind speech and forgiveness is better than alms followed by injury.
He that courts injury will obtain it.
Affectation is a greater injury to the face than smallpox.
He who puts up with insult invites injury.
The law of requital of injury by injury.
It has caused injury and will do so again.
No injury can be complained of by a consenting party.
Neglect will sooner kill an injury than revenge.
Many an injury comes from a fool's speech.
The memory of a benefit vanisheth, but the remembrance of an injury sticketh fast in the heart.
Best to learn from other people's injury.
Upbraiding makes a benefit an injury.
A baby is an angel whose wings decrease as his legs increase.
May your charity increase as much as your wealth.
When women increase in wealth, they are silent. But when they fall into trouble, the whole world gets to know.
Keep not ill company lest you increase the number.
Delays increase desires and sometimes extinguish them.
Kindnesses, like grain, increase by sowing.
Lovers' quarrels increase love.
When goods increase the body decreases.
Riches too increase, and the maddening craving for gold, So that men ever seek for more, that they may have the most.
Delays increase desires and sometimes extinguish them.
Ink, if not used, will dry up.
A wise mans ink lasts until only the stupid remain.
He who stays near vermilion gets stained red; he who stays near ink gets stained black.
A scholars ink lasts longer than a martyr's blood.
The palest ink lasts longer than the most retentive memory.
The pen of the tongue should be dipped in the ink of the heart.
The best memory is not so firm as faded ink.
A scholar's ink is worth as much as the blood of the martyr.
Ink on paper.
Where you father has been with ink, go not you with a bag.
Paper and ink and little justice.
A good memory is not so good as a little ink.
A man does not become a savant by licking ink.
Where you father has been with ink, go not you with a bag (i.e. what your father has sold and assigned, think not to recover with a bag of papers. In other words, don't go to law for it.
The answerer is inferior to the asker.
He who answers is inferior to the one who asks the question.
The superior doctor prevents sickness; The mediocre doctor attends to impending sickness; The inferior doctor treats actual sickness.
Summer is the season of inferior sledding.
Who is inferior and is ashamed of it proves that he really is inferior.
As long as I make you to be inferior, I render myself inferior.
Inferior men do not begin undertakings for fear of difficulties. Average men begin, but desist once difficulties appear. Men of superior nature never give up until they achieve their ends, however many the difficulties that appear.
Man's schemes are inferior to those made by heaven.
No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
There is nothing to be gained by buying inferior goods.
An innocent heart suspects no guile.
If the wife sins, the husband is not innocent.
He who pursues an innocent chicken always stumbles.
He that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.
The cockroach cannot be innocent in a court where the hen is judge.
Innocent actions carry their warrant with them.
So many in the jail while innocent.
When a wife sins the husband is never innocent.
The rack can extort a false confession from the innocent.
It's better to sleep on the floor in an incense shop than in a bed in a fishmarket.
We forget even incense in easy times; come hard times, we embrace the buddha's feet.
It is better to be kind to our neighbors than to cross the world to offer incense to our ancestors.
Old saints don't get incense anymore.
He is afraid of it, as the devil fears holy water or incense.
He who steals incense smells of it.
Better do a kindness near home than go far to burn incense.
He comes with incense in one hand, in the other a spear.
As long as time is not pressing one does not burn incense; when it becomes urgent one kisses the feet of Buddha.
You don't burn incense at an old crucifix.
Like saint like incense.
Incense intoxicates and every one wishes for it.
You burn incense before the god, and then topple him.
An inch too short is as bad as an ell.
A three inch tongue -- the iron bulwark of politics.
Darkness lies one inch ahead.
Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark.
An inch of gold will not buy an inch of time.
An inch is a great deal on a nose.
Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
Give him an inch, he'll take an ell.
An inch in a sword, or a palm in a lance, is a great advantage.
Without the aid of the divine, man cannot walk even an inch.
An inch of time cannot be bought with an inch of gold.
An inch of time is an inch of gold, but an inch of time cannot be purchased for an inch of gold.
Man cannot stir one inch without the push of heaven's finger.
Deviate an inch, lose a thousand miles.
A feet can be shorter while an inch can be longer.
You can't buy an inch of time with an inch of gold.
An inch of time is an inch of gold but you can't buy that inch of time with an inch of gold.
By the yard, life is hard. By the inch, it's a cinch.
Water runs a whole mile downstream easier than an inch upstream.
Don't give in one inch to the devil.
A mouse's vision is an inch long.
As you have spent the candle, spend the inch.
Virtue never goes far without the company of idleness.
Beauty is the sister of idleness and the mother of luxury.
Idleness moves so slowly that it will be overtaken by misery.
Idleness has poverty for wages.
Idleness is the beginning of all sin.
Idleness is the root of all evil.
A sword's honour is its idleness.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
Better lose your labour than your time in idleness.
A little idleness lost a tilled field.
Idleness is to be dead at the limbs but alive within.
Idleness is the devil's bolster.
Victory is not gained by idleness.
Idleness is a fool's desire.
Idleness is mother to all vices.
Love is the fruit of idleness.
Idleness is the key of poverty.
Idleness is hunger's mother, and of theft it is bull brother.
Study invites study, idleness produces idleness.
The idleness of a low-life causes losses; his shying away from work is perpetual.
Idleness is a sort of suicide.
Evil thoughts often come from idleness.
Idleness ruins the constitution.
By asking for the impossible we obtain the possible.
No one can bind himself to perform the impossible.
It is impossible to go and look into the stomach of another.
By asking the impossible you will get the best.
Money from poor men and balls from dogs, impossible to hide.
A person who wish for something impossible.
Once you lost the trust of someone, it is almost impossible to gain it back.
Someone who wish something impossible.
To believe a business impossible is the way to make it so.
It is impossible to find a man who has everything, but it is possible tofind one who enjoys the things he has.
It's impossible to awaken a man who is pretending to be asleep.
What is impossible to change is best to forget.
To love and be wise is impossible.
It can be impossible to change an established image.
Forcing a bludgeon through a chinar trunk. Doing the impossible.
People die voluntarily when it becomes impossible to live.
It is impossible to add much weight with a single morsel; it is hard to travel afar with a single step.
It is possible to kill a man but it is impossible to kill his name.
You must act as if it is impossible to fail.
All things were once impossible.
To forget is impossible.
Never believe the impossible.
Something impossible, something it will never happen.
Nothing is impossible to a willing heart.
The wonderful and the impossible have come into collision.
No one is expected to achieve the impossible.
It is always the impossible that happens.
Nothing is impossible to a willing mind.
To believe a thing impossible is to make it so.
To love and be wise is impossible.
You must act as if it is impossible to fail.
To forget is impossible.
The difficult is done at once, the impossible takes a little longer.
As good be an addled egg as an idle bird.
Better an idle house than a bad tenant.
An idle man is the devil's bolster.
He devil tempts all, but the idle man tempts the devil.
The luck of idle men sits next to them.
It is idle to swallow the cow and choke on the tail.
An idle woman is up to no good.
The quail waits for the stick; the idle loiterer about a place waits for a kick from an old boot.
An idle man is the devil's pillow.
If the devil catch a man idle he'll set him at work.
An idle person may have just three tasks: sleeping, eating and quarrelling.
Idle hands are the devil's workshop.
Luck is the idol of the idle.
The idle remarks of the rich are taken as maxims of wisdom by the poor.
The busy man has few idle visitors: to the boiling pot the flies come not.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
The devil is always at the elbow of an idle man.
A young man idle, an old man needy.
Idle folks have the least leisure.
He that labours is tempted by one devil; he that is idle is tempted by a thousand.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
The devil tempts all men, but idle men tempt the devil.
The devil makes work for idle hands.
The devil finds work for idle hands to do.
He that is busy is tempted but by one devil, he that is idle by a legion.
He that is busy is tempted but by one devil, he that is idle by a legion.
An idle youth, a needy age.
Better be idle than ill doing.
He that does his turn in time, sits half idle.
The devil tempts all, but the idle man tempts the devil.
Idle men tempt the devil; the devil tempts all others.
Better sit idle than work for naught.
An idle youth becomes in age a beggar.
He makes idle boasting.
The Devil finds work for idle hands to do.
Idle hands are the devil's playthings.
If you receive pay, you cannot sit idle and if you sit idle, you cannot receive pay.
Idle brains are the devil's workshop.
Satan finds some mischief still for idle hands to do.
Idle folks lack no excuses.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
The ox's part in milking-time. (I.e. the role of an idle spectator.)
Be not idle, and you shall not be longing.
Idle people have the least leisure.
Ignorance is blindness.
Every smart man is an ignoramus who abuses his ignorance.
Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.
The bitterness of studying is preferable to the bitterness of ignorance.
Changing one's mind is more often a sign of prudence than of ignorance.
Those who die through ignorance are many; those who die because they are intelligent are few.
The person who admits ignorance shows it once; the one who tries to hide it shows it often.
He who admits to his ignorance shows it once only; he who tries to hide it shows it frequently.
Ignorance is bliss.
Ignorance is the death of the living.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse for breaking it.
Endeavor to bear the ignorance of fortune with patience.
Ignorance of one's misfortunes is clear gain.
Innocence plays in the backyard of ignorance.
Ignorance is sweet for the soul.
Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it does make you sweat a lot.
There is only one good - knowledge; there is only one evil - ignorance.
Don't talk too much, because your ignorance is greater than your knowledge.
Man is learning all his life and yet he dies in ignorance.
Ignorance is the peace of life.
Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it will make you sweat a lot.
He that boasts of his own knowledge proclaims his ignorance.
If you think education is expensive try ignorance.
It's out of ignorance that a goat will attend a leopard's party.
Your ignorance is your worst enemy.
You must not enthrone ignorance just because there is much of it.
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
Ignorance is a form of environmental pollution.
Laugh and show your ignorance.
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
It is profound ignorance that inspires the dogmatic tone.
Ignorance is the mother of superstition.
Ignorance is the worst acquaintance.
Ignorance is a voluntary misfortune.
Art has no enemy but ignorance.
Ignorance doesn't necessarily kill you but it makes you sweat a lot.
Ignorance and incuriosity are two very soft pillows.
Where conceit and ignorance sit, grass will not grow again.
To change one's mind is rather a sign of prudence than ignorance.
A strong remedy for evils is ignorance of them.
Ignorance is not privileged by titular degrees.
Those who die through ignorance are many; those who die.
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
By ignorance we mistake, and by mistakes we learn.
Cooler than ice.
You do not really know your friends from your enemies until the ice breaks.
Better ice that melts than fire that extinguishes.
Try the ice before you venture on it.
When a snake gets warm on ice, then a German will wish well to a Czech.
The rich man gets his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter.
On thin ice everybody have the same strength.
The rich man has his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter.
Ice in spring is treacherous; new friendships are seldom sure.
He can sell ice on rura penthe.
You never really know your friends from your enemies until the ice breaks.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
It is not easy to walk upon the devil's ice.
He can live even on flat ice.
Ye seek hot water under cold ice.
When the water level decreases, the ice will crack.
He is so wise, that he goes upon the ice three days before it freezes.
Who burned himself with hot milk blows on ice cream.
Fire, quoth the fox, when he pissed on the ice.
A pile of ice behind him.
The beggars will be sent onto Kemijoki-river's ice in the spring and then we'll wait 'till the ice melts.
On the tongue [there's] honey, and on the heart [there's] ice.
As cold as ice.
There is no cow on the ice.
Honey on a tongue, ice in the heart.
Any wise enemy is better than an ignorant friend.
Ask advice of an ignorant man and he will think you are his enemy.
Giving advice to the ignorant is like the rain falling on muddy ground.
If you want to gather a lot of knowledge, act as if you are ignorant.
The ignorant is his own enemy.
God pardons the ignorant.
The opinion of the intelligent is better than the certainty of the ignorant.
Better than the ignorant are those who read books; better still are those who retain what they read; even better are those who understand it; the best of all are those who go to work.
Do not ask advice of the ignorant.
Wise is who admits he is still ignorant.
Be wise, but pretend to be ignorant.
There is no reply to the ignorant like keeping silence.
He who is ignorant at home is ignorant abroad.
Among the ignorant a little knowledge is of great value.
An ignorant person is simply an enemy to himself.
It is better to be ignorant than mistaken.
An ignorant doctor is no better than a murderer.
If your books are not read, your descendants will be ignorant.
Custom is the guide of the ignorant.
Better a sick body than an ignorant mind.
Being ignorant of law is no excuse.
No one is so poor as an ignorant person.
We covet not that of the existence of which we are ignorant.
One who is ignorant will remain unnoticed.
The ignorant think the Self can be known by the intellect, but the illumined know he is beyond the duality of the knower and the known.
Don't make little of your dish, for it may be an ignorant person who judges it.
Fear an ignorant man more than a lion.
Knowledge has no enemies but the ignorant.
Bright enough in the dark, dull in time of day. [Learned in what is of no use, ignorant of everything at all available.].
The ears do not lose their interest.
The s*x of a cralmac is of interest only to another cralmac.
He who makes an idol of his interest makes a martyr of his integrity.
A good deed bears interest.
Interest on debts grow without rain.
When you persuade, speak of interest, not of reason.
From middle age on, everything of interest is either illegal, immoral or fattening.
A friend advises in his interest, not yours.
It is good to lend to God and to the soil--they pay good interest.
What is new is esteemed, but what is in every day use ceases to afford interest.
Whose interest was it? To whose prejudice was it?
From middle age on, everything of interest is either illegal, immoral or fattening.
He who lends to the poor get his interest from God.
A friend advises in his interest, not yours.
If we dig precious things from the land, we will invite disaster.
A fool's lips bring him strife and invite a beating.
Invite people into your parlor, and they will come into your bedroom.
Since the beggar would come any way, it's best to invite him first.
Invite a peasant to your table and he'll put his feet on it.
Invite him as not to antagonize him, shove him off as not to let him eat.
Fortune often knocks at the door, but the fool does not invite her in.
Precepts invite, but examples drag us to conclusions.
By submitting to an old insult you invite a new one.
Better when birds sing than where irons ring.
He who has many irons in the fire, will let some of them burn.
He keeps two irons in the fire.
To have a lot of irons in the fire.
Many irons in the fire, pare must cool.
He that hath many irons in the fire, some of them will cool.
Too many irons in the fire.
Don't have too many irons in the fire. (16th century) (Citatboken)
It is always good when a man has two irons in the fire. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Strauss, Emanuel (1998). Concise Dictionary of European Proverbs (Abbreviated ed.). Routledge. p. 92. ISBN 0415160502.
Strauss, Emanuel (1994). Dictionary of European proverbs (Volume 2 ed.). Routledge. p. 600. ISBN 0415096243.
Source: S. W. Fallon; Sir Richard Carnac Temple; Faqir Chand (Lala.) (1998). A dictionary of Hindustani proverbs. Asian Educational Services. p. 119. ISBN 978-81-206-0663-0.
Source: Prakash, Om (1995). "110". Vyavharik Hindi Shuddh Prayog. Rajpal & Sons. p. 166. ISBN 978-81-7028-107-8.
KOH = Koiviston Heinot, 2003. Koonnut Unto Erlamo. ISBN 952-91-6089-5.
MHÄ = Moon Härmästä. Lions-klubi Härmät. Otava, 1976, ISBN 951-1-04141-X.
Margulis, Kholodnaya (2000). Russian-English dictionary of proverbs and sayings. McFarland. p. 22. ISBN 0786407034.
Paczolay, Gyula (1997). European Proverbs in 55 languages. DeProverbio.com. p. 272. ISBN 1-875943-44-7.
Paczolay, Gyula (1997). European Proverbs in 55 languages. DeProverbio.com. p. 170. ISBN 1-875943-44-7.
Martin H. Manser (2007). The Facts on File Dictionary of Proverbs. Infobase Publishing. p. 80. ISBN 978-0-8160-6673-5. Retrieved on 22 September 2013.
A foreigner scratches you where you do not itch.
Love, fire, a cough, the itch, and gout are not to be concealed.
Who ha' fingernail no ha' itch, and who ha' itch no ha' fingernail.
It would make a man scratch where it doth not itch, To see a man live poor to die rich.
What gives the child the itch has already given him the fingernails for scratching it.
When the itch is inside the boot, scratching outside provides little consolation.
The itch that gives someone skill is difficult to scratch.
He has too many lice to feel an itch.
Three diseases without shame: Love, itch and thirst.
Scratch people where they itch.
Scratch first, itch later.
To eat and itch, all you have to do is begin.
'what shall i add for the poor?' asked god. 'fingernails and itch,' answered the poor.
What is inside a package is known only to its owner.
When hunger gets inside you, nothing else can.
Priest on the outside, Satan on the inside.
The noisiest drum has nothing but air inside.
You can outdistance that which is running after you, but not what is running inside you.
Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house than to have one single enemy inside it.
The tyrant is only the slave turned inside out.
Shining I inside, let him guide my heart.
The worm that gnaws on the bean is the one inside the bean.
Talk about things of tomorrow and the mice inside the ceiling laugh.
Keep your broken arm inside your sleeve.
It's better to have a thousand enemies outside of the tent than one inside the tent.
To sit by the ring and tell the man inside, 'knock him down.'
Better a hundred enemies outside the house than one inside.
When the drop (drink) is inside, the sense is outside.
Outside a sheep, inside a wolf.
A cage made of gold does not feed the bird inside of it.
A person who is outwardly calm has anger raging inside.
There is no point of nurturing an anger inside us. Just let it go.
A person who talks a lot usually is empty inside.
A malicious man is like a coal sack -- black on the outside and even blacker inside.
Turn it inside and out.
Who built the drum knows best what is inside.
When the itch is inside the boot, scratching outside provides little consolation.
Beat the drum inside the house to spare the neighbors.
Outside noisy, inside empty.
A cat keeps its crawls inside until it meets a mouse.
A family is like a thick forest, often from outside its dense, when your inside each tree has its own position.
You can out run that which is running after you but not that that's running inside of you.
He who loves the vase loves also what is inside.
The ant that destroys a kola nut lives inside it.
Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer.
A farmer who would not work inside the rain and would not work under the sun, would have nothing to harvest at the end of the farming year.
Marriage is like a groundnut, you have to crack it to see what is inside.
The fish who is in the weir will want out, who is outside will want inside the weir.
He is ripe inside, like a water-melon.
A person's stripes are inside; those of a tiger are outside.
Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer.
A tyrant is only a slave turned inside out.
In love with the geliga (powerful stone in animals) inside the dragon's mouth.
No one truly knows a nation until one has been inside its jails.
Marriage is like a besieged castle; those who are on the outside wish to get in; and those who are on the inside wish to get out.
[Only] He who is in the convent knows what goes on inside.
Do not insult the mother alligator until after you have crossed the river.
My ka dwells in my body. Insult it not.
Deceive the rich and powerful if you will, but don't insult them.
A healthy person who begs for food is an insult to a generous farmer.
An insult is but a short garment: it reveals the one who wears it.
Praise in own mouth is insult.
When you insult a klingon's honor, prepare for trouble.
Never make fun of a ferengi's mother... Insult something he cares about instead.
Do not insult a crocodile while your feet are still in the water.
When you eat an egg do not insult the chicken.
A warning to the wise is a blessing, to the fool an insult.
Do not insult the crocodile until you've crossed the river.
He who takes revenge for a small insult, will have a bigger one thrown at him.
Anger is always more harmful than the insult that caused it.
Don't insult the dead.
Do not insult a crocodile while your feet are still in the water.
Don't insult the alligator until you've crossed the river.
No prepotent man will insult other people for two consecutive seasons.
Even hares insult a dead lion.
A captive they insult with impunity.
By submitting to an old insult you invite a new one.
Let me tell you about my fate: it is an insult. Let me explain it to you: it is a disgrace.
Were I to tell my neighbour about my fate, he would heap insults upon me.
I looked into the water. My destiny was drifting past. I was born on an ill-fated day.
Excessive praise is like an insult.
A fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man overlooks an insult.
A fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man overlooks an insult.
Even a hare will insult a dead lion.
Intelligence is in the head, not in the age.
The beauty of the man is in his intelligence and the intelligence of the woman is in her beauty.
Never has a man more need of his intelligence than when a fool asks him a question.
Never let your education interfere with your intelligence.
Bravery without intelligence is not bravery.
It is too late for you, let God give your children some intelligence.
You don't need intelligence to have luck, but you do need luck to have intelligence.
He who has no intelligence is happy with it.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
Intelligence is a fruit picked in the neighbour's garden.
Speaking french is no proof of intelligence.
With happiness comes intelligence to the heart.
To learn about other people is science, to learn to know yourself is intelligence.
The intelligence of the average individual reaches its lowest ebb when he enters a railroad station.
Experience is the teacher of jesters and the intelligence of the wise.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
A fool who knows he is a fool has a little intelligence, but a fool that thinks he is intelligent is really a fool.
Any fool can say "Ah" -- you need intelligence to say "Yes."
That's terrible when intelligence goes and the head stays.
Intelligence comes, but in the evening train.
Diligence are the base for intelligence.
A man's intelligence is located in the tip of the pen.
Free things decrease one's intelligence.
Intelligence is an asset.
Intelligence is endowed, but wisdom is learned.
Never let your education interfere with your intelligence.
Friendship is love with intelligence.
Intelligence is the best capital.
A poor man with intelligence is wealthy.
War camp Utti: oh shit, my intelligence disappeared!
Intelligence hoy don't leave, understanding don't failǃ.
An ill tongue may do much.
No word is ill spoken, that is not ill taken.
There are some who see ill, and would like to see worse.
Better be ill spoken of by one before all than by all before one.
Take counsel before it goes ill, lest it go worse.
It's ill jesting with edged tools.
He who loiters hears ill spoken of himself.
Only the soil knows when a young mouse is ill.
It is the soil that knows that the mouse's baby is ill.
It is ill done to chain a dragon for roasting your meat.
That land fares ill where the king's but a babe.
He who spekes ill of someone close to you in your presence sends you to tell him so.
If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get ill.
It is an ill thing to be deceived, but worse to deceive.
Better untaught than ill taught.
Ill comes often on the back of worse.
It's an ill wind that blows no good.
When children stand quiet, they have done some ill.
He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody.
He that enquires all opinions, comes ill speed.
He is an ill husband who is not missed.
It is no sin to sell dear, but a sin to give ill measure.
Shall the sheep go astray, they will be led by the ill goat.
He that does you a very ill turn will never forgive you.
He that dares not venture must not complain of ill luck.
He who speaks ill of himself is praised by no one.
The late comer is ill lodged.
He who finds what has not been lost, will chance to die before he is ill.
Ill got, ill spent.
Who speaks ill of others to you will speak ill of you to others.
No matter who comes off well, the peacemaker is sure to come off ill.
Never consult a doctor who has never been ill himself.
A stout heart breaks ill fortune.
He that does ill never wants for excuses.
Ill befal the belly that forgets eaten bread.
Ill fares the young bird in the urchin's hand.
Marry, marry, sounds well but tastes ill.
Lay your hand on your bosom and you will not speak ill of another.
Do ill, and expect the like.
Better be silent than speak ill.
The ill wind that blows is probably your mother-in-law farting.
He that would be ill served should keep plenty of servants.
He who begins ill finishes worse.
A woman's in pain, a woman's in woe, a woman is ill, when she likes to be so.
A stout heart overcomes ill fortune.
Give a dog an ill name, and you may as well hang him.
He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
If you would have your work ill done, pay beforehand.
Ill luck comes by pounds and goes away by ounces.
Nothing is ill said if it is not ill taken.
Speak not ill of the year until it is past.
The later comer is ill lodged.
If you want to give a sick man medicine, let him first be really ill -- so that he can see how well the medicine works.
A work ill done must be twice done.
Ill tidings come soon enough.
It is ill catching hares with drums.
It is ill takin' the breeks off a highlandman.
It's ill waiting for dead men's shoes.
It is easier to prevent ill habits than to break them.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving with the Pope.
Ill vessels seldom miscarry.
It's ill speaking between a full man and a fasting.
When you are on the road speak not ill of your enemy.
He that has no ill luck grows weary of good luck.
A house filled with guests is eaten up and ill spoken of.
Do what I say well, and not what I do ill.
A stout heart crushes some ill luck.
Ill air slays sooner than the sword.
Do not bear ill will toward those who tell you the truth.
There's no ill that doesn't turn out for the better.
Rejoice not ever at tidings of ill, but glad let thy soul be in good.
The child weeps for it's good and the old man for his ill.
Those that do you a very ill deed will never forgive you.
Don't take every ill to the doctor, or every quarrel to the lawyer, or every thirst to the tavern.
It is an ill wind that blows nobody any good.
To speak ill of anyone is to speak ill of yourself.
Patience over wins a lot of ill.
To favor the ill is to injure the good.
Keep not ill company lest you increase the number.
It's an ill army when the devil carries the colours.
All men think their enemies ill men.
He that speaks ill of the mare would buy her.
Ill words are bellows to a slackening fire.
Whatsoever was the father of the disease, an ill diet was the mother.
It is ill prizing of green barley.
They that think no ill are soonest beguiled.
It is ill jesting with sharp tools.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving against the Pope.
The iron never takes advice from the hammer.
Iron does not clang by itself.
A golden hammer breaks an iron gate.
A gentle word opens an iron gate.
One gentle word opens a gate of iron.
Hit the iron while it's still hot.
If you had teeth of steel, you could eat iron coconuts.
Eggs and iron must not be in the same bag.
A three inch tongue -- the iron bulwark of politics.
A silver hammer can open an iron gate.
The Potato grows in silence, The iron corrodes in silence.
Poor iron won't make a sharp sword.
Chains of gold are stronger than chains of iron.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Beat the iron while it is hot.
An iron rod bends while it is hot.
Unused iron is ruined by rust.
Iron kills iron dies.
Iron that is not used soon rusts.
It is a good file that cuts iron without making a noise.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Choose your woman with a velvet glove, but control her with a fist of iron.
Polite words open iron gates.
Better an iron dictatorship than a golden anarchy.
Trouble is to man what rust is to iron.
Necessity breaks iron.
Lead for old iron.
Casting the iron whilst it is hot.
Iron may be rubbed so long that it gets heated.
God comes with leaden feet but strikes with iron hands.
Iron that works does not rust.
Patience can break through iron doors.
A hammer does not work with iron.
You cannot weld cake-dough to cast iron, nor a girl to an old man.
Iron is worked when it's still hot.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Iron whets iron.
Turn iron (or stone) into gold by the touch.
No iron is so strong that it cannot be melted down, and no business so dirty that can be fixed with money.
Locks can not be made from good iron, soldiers are not made out of good people.
An iron rod can be ground down to become a needle.
A bar of iron continually ground becomes a needle.
You are striking cold iron.
It makes no sense to try to forge the iron whilst it is still cold.
It is bad iron in which there is no steel.
Rust consumes iron and envy consumes itself.
Crooked iron may be straightened with a hammer.
What you give, is written in sand; what you take, with an iron hand.
Strike while the iron is hot.
An iron peace is better than a golden war.
An iron ring made of wood.
Strike the iron while it is hot.
Strike the iron while it is warm.
Iron not used soon rusts.
God hath leaden feet, but iron hands.
Quhen the iron is hot, it is time to strike.
Kind words will unlock an iron door.
A piece of iron can only become what the blacksmith says it should become.
The time for pressing is while the iron is hot.
Necessity can break iron.
Little thieves have iron chains, and great thieves gold ones.
Strike while the iron is hot.
A silver hammer breaks an iron door.
You cannot forge a good sword from bad iron.
A gold sword opens an iron door.
Man is harder than iron, stronger than stone and more fragile than a rose.
When the iron is hot, then is the time to strike.
You are teaching iron to swim.
Strike when the iron is hot.
He writes with an iron pen.
Strike while the iron is hot. or Make hay while the sun shines.
You should forge while the iron is hot.
Forge while the iron is hot.
There are three tough men: fire, iron and water.
Swedish iron, hemp of Riga, English tools and fish waters of Kemi and the meadows of Liminka and Russian gold are the best in the world.
May your friendship not be like a stone: if it breaks you cannot put the pieces together. May it be like iron: when it breaks, you can weld the pieces back together.
Choose your woman with a velvet glove, but control her with a fist of iron.
A custom wears a shirt of iron.
Working and working at it, iron can be pulverized.
Only iron strikes iron.
Strike while the iron is hot.
He should wear iron shone, that bides his neighbours deed.
There's no iron so hard that rust won't fret it; and there's no cloth so fine that moths won't eat it.
Strike while the iron is hot.
He writes with an iron pen. [That which he writes will not be easily altered.].
How many daily read the Bible, and yet pursue their course of evil.
How many daily read the Word, and yet from vice are not deterred.
Three or four daily will bring you to the bottom of the sack.
The ass's son brays one hour daily.
There is no god like the throat: it takes sacrifices daily.
Man's mind is a watch that needs winding daily.
He that would make a golden gate, must bring a nail to it daily.
Proverbs are the daughters of daily experience.
He who has no wife, is for thrashing her daily; but he that has one, takes care of her.
He who would make a golden door must add a nail to it daily.
Whilst we drink, prank ourselves, with wenches daily, Old age upon's at unawares doth sally.
Give me, Lord, my daily bread, I will get my own brandy.
A daily guest is a great thief in the kitchen.
Arms, women, and books should be looked at daily.
A daily guest is a thief in the kitchen.
Whilst we drink, prank ourselves, with wenches daily, Old age upon's at unawares doth sally.
It is the belly which daily gives thanks.
Give me, Lord, my daily bread, I will get my own brandy.
If you hurt the reputation of another, you damage your own.
If you damage the character of another, you damage your own..
If you damage the character of another, you damage your own.
You cannot damage a wrecked whip.
Sharp vinegar may damage its container.
Don't scuffle with the potter, for he makes money by the damage.
Damage suffered makes you knowing, but seldom rich.
Another's damage is soon forgotten.
The damage of another is soon forgotten.
What's such child who doesn't do damage worth five marks a day - a boy may do worth one hundred.
Anger brings damage.
Never write what you dare not sign.
A monkey cannot dare what an elephant can.
A chief may have more wives than he can remember but you dare not try to share his wives with him.
Dare to be true; nothing can need a lie.
Dictators ride to and fro upon tigers which they dare not dismount.
If the glacier perceives a headless army is clumsy, it feels a sort of emphatic guilt, I dare say.
The conquered dare not open their mouths.
Dare a tenner sa coe de s'ambidda.
To dare is to lose your foothold for a moment, to not dare is to lose yourself.
Dare to be wise. (Horace) (Motto of the University of New Brunswick)
Dare to be wise. [Sapere aude.].
We dare defend our rights. [Audemus iura nostra defendere.].
The daughter-in-law wipes away what the mother-in-law has seen.
Daughter-in-law hates mother-in-law.
I speak to you, daughter; hear it daughter-in-law.
Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, storm and hail.
O daughter, i'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it.
The mother-in-law does not remember that she was once a daughter-in-law.
I tell my daughter, my daughter-in-law should understand it.
You reproach your daughter, but you mean your daughter-in-law.
Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law can be cooked together but they will never be tender.
My daughter-in-law tucked up her sleeves, and upset the kettle into the fire.
As long as I was a daughter-in-law I never had a good mother-in-law, and as long as I was a mother-in-law I never had a good daughter-in-law.
O daughter, I'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it.
Not until just before dawn do people sleep best; not until people get old do they become wise.
Since love departs at dawn, create, O God, a night that has no morn.
He who gets drenched at dawn has the rest of the day to dry out.
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
God helps him who wakes up early at dawn.
The darkest hour is just before dawn.
My job is to scream, 'cock-a-doodle-doo'; from then on, it may not dawn.
Take a breath of the new dawn and make it a part of you.
The dawn does not come twice to awaken a man.
Choose your inn before dark, get back on the road before dawn.
Plan your year in the spring, your day at dawn.
The hen knows that dawn has arrived but it leaves the duty of crowing to the cock.
The darkest hour is before dawn.
Where the heart sleeps is where you're bound to go at dawn.
Dawn does not come to awaken a man a second time.
Dawn does not come twice to awaken a man.
Dawn is the friend of the muses.
No one knows what the dawn will bring.
The darkest hour is just before the dawn.
The sun is red at dawn and red at sunset. Great men are unchanged in prosperity and in distress.
Where there are many roosters the dawn comes late.
Too many roosters crowing at the same time make the dawn take too long.
No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up.
Without gold even the daylight is dark.
Daylight sho t'rough lilly keyhole.
If everyone's misfortunes were seen by all in broad daylight, in the end people would take back their own.
A hangman is a good trade, he doth his work by daylight.
No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up.
The man with no patience waits for daylight, and when it comes he'll be blind.
Daylight will come, though the cock do not crow.
One should choose one's bedfellow whilst it is daylight.
Don't praise the daylight before it is evening.
Leave in the daylight, don't leave in the dark.
What is true by firelight is not always true by daylight.
A marketplace is not the pace for a husband and wife to argue. However long the night may last, there will be a morning. Daylight follows a dark night.
The cripple is always the one to open the dancing.
There's more to dancing than a pair of dancing shoes.
It's good dancing on another man's floor.
A dancer will not become crippled for dancing calls for grace.
Because of lack of talent in dancing, the floor is blamed.
The soul of a fool is always dancing on the tip of his tongue.
Eggs have no business dancing with stones.
Dancing at the carnival, baptizing on all saints day.
More belongs to dancing than a pair of dancing-shoes.
Dancing the drum will be done where the drum is.
A child brought up where there is always dancing cannot fail to dance.
You cannot dance without music though you can sing instrumentally without dancing.
Dancing depends on the parents.
You need more than dancing shoes to be a dancer.
The soul of an idiot is always dancing on the end of his tongue.
A pair of light shoes is not all that is needed for dancing.
Dancing was first started by a madman.
Eggs have no business dancing with stones.
The dancing of tanerore has begun.
When the ass is too happy he begins dancing on the ice.
When the bundles of tobacco are ready, dancing begins.
The life of a young unmarried man is dancing.
The tune you are playing is not the one I am dancing to.
Better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.
Don't curse the darkness, light a candle.
Darkness conceals the hippopotamus.
Where there is love there is no darkness.
The darkness of night cannot stop the light of morning.
In the darkness all cows are black.
Proverbs in conversation are torches in darkness.
If you open the eyes of a blind man he wants to go back to the darkness.
Darkness reigns at the foot of the lighthouse.
After every darkness is light.
Darkness and night are mothers of thought.
A white day sheds light, and a black day sheds darkness.
The eye cannot penetrate darkness.
Who arrives in the darkness departs as night falls.
He who gets annoyed of darkness ends up knocking himself everywhere.
He who waits for the moon waits for darkness.
It is hard even for the most selfish man to eat fish in the darkness.
The blight ness of the moon can only be experienced in total darkness.
Falsehood is the darkness of faith.
Only the blind gropes in the darkness.
Darkness caused to dance even him who cannot.
Darkness shows no wrong path to she who gets what she wants before dark.
Lovers and thieves always look for darkness.
After darkness comes light.
It's better to light a candle than curse the darkness.
In the darkness all people are equally pretty.
Another person's soul is [in] darkness.
We should bolster the light rather than fight the darkness.
A thief and darkness are friends.
Darkness is the owl's desire.
Falsehood is the darkness of faith.
We should bolster the light rather than fight the darkness.
In Thy skies, mountains,
Springs, seas that were conquered
Buried already is the darkness
Of yesterday's suffering.
The sick man sleeps when the debtor cannot.
A sick man sleeps, but not a debtor.
A small debt makes a debtor, a heavy one an enemy.
A little debt makes a debtor, a great one an enemy.
My debtor is a worse payer even than I am.
A small debt makes a man your debtor, a large one your enemy.
A little makes a debtor and much an enemy.
The rich man doesn't pay, the debtor does.
When the cock craws the heart of a debtor skips a bit.
A good deal for two, is a clip on the ears of a third.
Kif is like fire; a little warms, a great deal burns.
When the deal is done, discuss it no more; it is difficult to collect dispersed water.
Deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own.
If you deal in camels, make the doors high.
Cunning men deal in generalizations.
Better a little chiding than a good deal of heartache.
A little and a little, collected together, becomes a great deal; the heap in the barn consists of single grains, and drop and rop makes an inundation.
At court they sell a good deal of smoke without fire.
A man who holds good cards would never say if they were dealt wrong.
An inch is a great deal on a nose.
He gains a great deal who loses a vain hope.
He who would stop every man's mouth must have a great deal of meal.
He who knows a great deal has a hundred eyes.
A little fire burns up a great deal of corn.
A deal is a deal... Until a better one comes along.
Teaching a jew to deal in the market is like teaching grandmother to eat her eggs.
You must be fully prepared to lose a great deal in order to make a great deal.
We learn little from victory, but a great deal from defeat.
It is foolish to deal with a fool.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away in the morning to avoid removing the ash; he will have to deal with it when he comes back.
Better do little good than a great deal bad.
Drinking a little too much is drinking a great deal too much.
Better own a trifle than want a great deal.
A little gall make a great deal of honey bitter.
Deal with your friends as if they will become your enemies tomorrow, and deal with your enemies as if they will become your friends tomorrow.
When a man wants a wife, he wants but a wife; but when he has got a wife, he wants a great deal.
Beware when you deal with sharpies.
Let me deal with my troubles myself.
A little help does a great deal.
In a deal there are two fools: the one who asks too much and the one who asks too little.
I shall speak facts; but some will say I deal in fiction.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
The cunning men do not deal with each other.
The biggest rascal you'll probably ever need to deal with watches you shavin' his face in the mirror every mornin'.
Another man's horse and your own whip can do a great deal.
A person who travels knows a great deal.
A little fire burns up a great deal of corn.
Deal with your friends as if they will become your enemies tomorrow.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
He who has to deal with a blockhead has need of much brains.
Victory makes you into an emperor, defeat into a rebel.
He is truly hungry who accepts defeat in a fight over meat.
A destroyer can defeat thousands of earthenware makers.
He who does not admit defeat is not a sportsman.
How easy it is to defeat people who do not kindle fire for themselves.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
Mere life is not a victory, mere death is not a defeat.
Victory has 100 fathers and defeat is an orphan.
We learn little from victory, but a great deal from defeat.
Victory has hundred fathers and defeat is an orphan.
Defeat is not failure but trail is total failure.
Negotiate with your enemy whilst you are a strong and formidable force, and he will always fear and respect you, but negotiate at the brink of defeat, and he will trample you down.
Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
Destroying an Empire to win a war is no victory. And ending a battle to save an Empire is no defeat.
Victory has hundred fathers and defeat is an orphan.
A deer tethered with a golden chain can escape to the forest to eat grass.
Those who hunt deer sometimes raise tigers.
Do not shoot a glass arrow into a painted deer.
If you are hunting for a red deer then ignore the hares.
A new servant can catch a running deer.
The lone wolf may yet kill as many deer as a pack.
Tigers and deer do not stroll together.
A monkey that amuses me is better than a deer astray.
The dog that is forced into the woods will not hunt many deer.
Serve as a serf or fly like a deer.
Lions in time of peace; deer in war.
The man will surely fail, who dares delay, and lose to-morrow that has lost to-day.
It's no delay to stop to edge the tool.
Time fleeth away without delay.
Better delay and get there.
A good remedy for anger is delay.
Desire is nourished by delay.
Don't delay today's work until tomorrow.
Every delay has its blessings.
Good is the delay which makes sure.
Let there be no delay.
Love brooks no delay.
Providence may delay, but punishment will come at length.
The Roman conquered by delay.
There is danger in delay. (Strauss, 1998 p. 695)
Oh hasty one, God will delay you.
Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.
An agreement is a kind of debt.
A debt is still unpaid, even if forgotten.
There is a great uproar made about the debt of a poor man.
An old debt is better than an old grudge.
Going to bed without dinner is better than waking up in debt.
A thousand regrets do not pay one debt.
Do not run into debt with a rich man, or promise anything to a poor one.
Gold is a debt we can repay, but kindness not till our dying day.
Better to pay and have little than have much and be in debt.
A pound of care will not pay an ounce of debt.
A poor man's debt makes a great noise.
Everyone must pay his debt to nature.
Better to go to bed supperless than run in debt.
Go to bed without supper, you will rise without debt.
Out of debt, out of danger.
A hundred wagon loads of thoughts will not pay a single ounce of debt.
Who pays a debt creates capital.
Better be in debt than in shame.
A pound a fret can't pay an ounce a debt.
Talking of an old debt always starts another quarrel.
A pound's worth of tears will not settle a penny's worth of debt.
When death comes, the rich man has no money and the poor man no debt.
Who borrows has to pay back his debt.
Promises make debt, and debt makes promises.
Debt is beautiful only after it is repaid.
A pound of care will not pay a pound of debt.
Go to bed supperless and you will wake without debt.
A debt may get moldy, but it never decays.
When the leopard has a broken paw, the antellope comes to collect an old debt.
Treat people in your debt like family... Exploit them.
One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in debt to those who are kind.
A debt may get moldy, but it never decays.
Poverty without debt is real wealth.
You can run into debt, but you have to crawl out.
Debt is the worst kind of poverty.
It is better to pay and have a little left than to have much and be always in debt.
A small debt makes a debtor, a heavy one an enemy.
Rather than run into debt, wear your old coat.
There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry.
A small debt makes a man your debtor, a large one your enemy.
Forgetting a debt does not pay it.
A promise is a debt.
Every promise is a debt.
Ye may puind for debt, but not for unkindnesse.
One can never repay one's debt to one's mother.
A hundred years of fretting will not pay a halfpenny of debt.
He who gets out of debt enriches himself.
The payment adorns the debt.
He who promises incurs a debt.
Happy is the man who is out of debt.
Father's debt, son to give back.
Of hunger and debt, debt is preferable.
Aft times the cautioner pays the debt.
Out o' debt, out o' danger.
Debt is worse than poverty.
If you promise something it is a debt that you have to repay.
You surely will get the debt from a living person.
Debt is beautiful after repaid.
If a man would live in peace, he should be blind, deaf, and dumb.
He is like a deaf man at a wedding procession.
A deaf man may not have heard the thunder but he surely will see the rain.
Love for something makes a man blind and deaf.
The rich become deaf and the mighty blind.
If the pocket is empty, the judge is deaf.
The deaf does not listen, but invents well.
There's no worse deaf man than the man who doesn't want to listen.
If you listen to dogs barking, you'll go deaf and never learn much.
The deaf laugh twice.
No ear is so deaf as one which wishes not to hear.
Like a deaf man in a parade.
Those that rule must hear and be deaf, must see and be blind.
He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind.
Who so deaf as he that will not hear.
It's the deaf people that create the lies.
To sing to the deaf, to talk with the dumb, and to dance for the blind are three foolish things.
Never whisper to the deaf, or wink at the blind.
Pray for revenge, and God will turn a deaf ear.
To mad words deaf ears.
None so deaf as those who would not hear.
Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf.
There are none so deaf as those who will not hear advice.
Who listens to the voice of the elderly is like a strong tree; who turns a deaf ear is like a twig in the wind.
Never tell your story to a deaf man.
With money you can make the dead speak; without it you can't even keep the deaf quiet.
You don't have to tell the deaf that there is a stampede in the market.
Thunder cannot make a deaf person hear.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.
Who is so deaf or so blind as he that willfully will neither hear nor see?
A deaf husband and a blind wife will always make a happy couple.
None so deaf as those who won't hear.
It is useless to knock at the door of a deaf man.
None so deaf as he that will not hear.
There is a dialogue between deaf people.
He keeps silent, like a deaf pig in the wheat-field.
A husband must be deaf and the wife blind to have quietness.
Hea, will gar a deaf man hear.
Who preaches to the deaf, wastes the sermon.
Who is blind, dumb and deaf will live a peaceful life of a hundred years.
Children and the deaf are the punishment of God.
The elderly, even if deaf and blind, still know a lot.
Mothers-in-law are fine so long as they are deaf and blind.
To rude words deaf ears.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
A good husband should be deaf and a good wife blind.
Mass is not repeated for the deaf.
Hearing he hears not. He is deaf to entreaty.
You talk to a deaf man.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
Love makes a man both blind and deaf.
A mother-in-law should be blind in one eye and deaf in one ear.
A deaf auditor makes a crazy answerer.
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.
Mothers-in-law are fine so long as they are deaf and blind.
There is na man so deaf as he that will not hear.
See and blind, hear and deaf.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
There is delight in danger and danger in delight.
Dogs delight to bark and bite for God has made them so.
Danger and delight grow on one stalk.
Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning.
One must ask the delight of opium from one that smokes it.
Excess of delight palls the appetite.
Diligence brings delight.
It's dog's delight to bark and bite, but little children never.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
Red sky at night shepherds delight.
Energy is Eternal Delight. (William Blake)
To meet an old friend in a distant country is like the delight of rain after a long drought.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
The genuine friend, who is affected with the joys and sorrows of another, is a medicinal cordial, the sanctuary of the heart, the delight of the eyes, and worthy of confidence.
Weeping will follow a long delight, fart from laughing long.
There is meikle between word and deed.
A good deed is something one returns.
A good deed will make a good neighbor.
Love is deed and not fine phrases.
The smallest good deed is better than the grandest good intention.
The wish is the father of the deed.
The italians are wise before the deed; the germans in the deed; the french after the deed.
Revenge in cold blood is the devil's own act and deed.
From the promise to the deed is a day's journey.
The news of a good deed travels far, but the news of a bad one travels even farther.
Do not expect good in return for a good deed.
A good deed bears interest.
A good deed is written on snow.
A good deed is worth gold.
The better the day, the better the deed.
From word to deed is a great space.
‘twixt the word and the deed there's a long step.
A good deed that is repaid by a bad deed.
A tale is soon told; a deed is not soon done.
Entreaty and right do the deed.
A good deed is the best form of prayer.
One good deed has many claimants.
Those that do you a very ill deed will never forgive you.
A good deed is something one returns.
The better the day, the better the deed.
Deed done is well begun.
Do a good deed every day.
A good deed dies when it is spoken about.
An evil deed has a witness in the bosom.
A thankless man never does a thankful deed.
Precipitate counsel--perilous deed.
The better day the better deed.
A good deed is never lost.
If you wish to do a good deed, consult no one.
Wrong cannot rest, nor ill deed stand.
They will be hushed by a good deed who laugh at a wise speech.
Nothing ages more than a good deed.
If it is good then the deed is more important than the intention; if it's bad then the intention is worse than the deed.
Take the will for the deed.
If you can't do the deed, don't block another from trying.
After a foolish deed comes remorse.
Ye maun tak the will for the deed.
He should wear iron shone, that bides his neighbours deed.
When one comes to comfort a young widow, he does not mean to perform a good deed.
Every beast roars in its own den.
Sending the goose on a message to the fox's den.
Hunger drives the wolf from its den.
Unless you enter the tiger's den you cannot take the cubs.
A sly rabbit will have three openings to its den.
You can't catch a cub without going into the tiger's den.
There is no beast that does not roar in its den.
You cannot catch a tiger cub unless you enter the tiger's den.
Men nyght onder den boom, daermen te bet afheeft.
Men melkt de koe door den hals.
when a man say him no mind, den he mind.
Gypsy gold does not chink and glitter, it gleams in the sun and neighs in the dark.
All cats are gray in the dark.
In dark weather the devil is in the air.
Daylight follows a dark night.
After dark all cats are leopards.
If you are going to die you will die in the dark even if you have been in the candle business.
Who suffers from diarrhea, is not afraid of the dark.
Suspicion bears dark devils.
At the bottom of the lighthouse it is dark.
The night may be dark, but the apples have been counted.
Heaven is dark and yet out of it streams clear water.
Character is what you are in the dark.
It takes a heap of licks to strike a nail in the dark.
Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark.
It is usually dark below the candlestick.
In the dark all cats and all girls are beautiful.
Without gold even the daylight is dark.
Often a troll-woman is under fair skin, and virtue under dark hair.
A virgin's heart is a dark forest.
He who must die, must die in the dark, even though he sells candles.
It takes a heap of licks to drive a nail in the dark.
In an instant illumination can be achieved, it is as easy as turning on a light, the problem is finding the switch in the dark.
The moon lightens well but leaves certain areas in the dark.
A good name shines in the dark.
The base of a lighthouse is dark.
Drink and sing: the dark night is ahead of us.
Choose your lodging before dark and leave before the morning dew.
Choose your inn before dark, get back on the road before dawn.
Sunshine always follows a dark night.
If you get rich, be in a dark corner when you jump for joy.
If you want to catch a black goat you make haste before it's dark.
Men fear death as children do going in the dark.
Character is what you are in the dark when no one else is around.
He who is to break his neck finds the stairs in the dark.
The white penny will become useful in your dark days.
Old churches have dark windows.
If you put out another's candle, you also will be in the dark.
Love is like the moon: now full, now dark.
Leopards lurk in dark corners.
Keep up with the times, don't stay in the dark.
Dark ground gives good bread; white ground is quickly tired.
Darkness shows no wrong path to she who gets what she wants before dark.
Even a small star shines in the dark.
It is hard to find a pin in the dark.
No one will notice in the dark.
Bright enough in the dark, dull in time of day.
A suspicious mind sees everything on the dark side.
Even the candle seller dies in the dark.
The young one always knows faster in the dark.
Empty the clear path to heaven, crowded the dark road to hell.
A marketplace is not the pace for a husband and wife to argue. However long the night may last, there will be a morning. Daylight follows a dark night.
Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark.
Character is what you are in the dark when no one else is around.
All cats are grey in the dark.
No matter how dark it is, the hand always knows the way to the mouth.
You can find your mouth even in the dark.
Bright enough in the dark, dull in time of day. [Learned in what is of no use, ignorant of everything at all available.].
Never use a dwarf to measure the depth of the water.
Rippling water shows lack of depth.
You can measure the depth of the sea but what about a man's heart?
Only a fool tests the depth of a river with both feet.
No one tests the depth of the river with both feet.
Never venture out of your depth till you can swim.
You can't tell the depth of the well by the length of the handle on the pump.
Never reveal the bottom of your purse or the depth of your mind.
What orators lack in depth, they make up for in length.
Like stepping into the water without knowing its depth.
Only a dupe checks the depth of the water with both feet.
The depth of a speech comes with jaws.
Never venture out of your depth till you can swim.
Everything dear is a woman's fancy.
Bargains are dear.
The son of a son is dear, the son of a daughter a stranger.
Not cheap without reason, nor dear without value.
Experience is a dear school, but fools learn in no other.
It is no sin to sell dear, but a sin to give ill measure.
What's of no use is too dear at a gift.
Dear physic always does good, if not to the patient, at least to the apothecary.
Compliments cost nothing, yet many pay dear for them.
It is dear honey that must be licked off thorns.
He buys very dear who begs.
Dear is cheap, and cheap is dear.
Home, dear home, small as thou art, to me thou art a palace.
Who gives sell, sells dear, if the receiver be not a churl.
A clear bargain, a dear friend.
A gift delayed, and long expected, is not given, but sold dear.
Sell me dear, and measure me fair.
That costs dear which is bought with begging.
Repentance costs dear.
For some people war is war, for others - dear mother.
One does not regret giving one's own ear-ring to one's dear friend.
God grant, dear wife, that this son be ours.
After-wit is dear bought.
Not a few proverbs are dear children of experience.
The only more dear to you than your child, is your child's child.
He who will not take cheap advice, will have to buy dear repentance.
Where all adulterers to wear grey coats, the cloth would be dear.
It is not a sin to sell dear, but it is to make ill measure.
Another's bread costs dear.
Good ware was never dear.
One may buy gold too dear.
Only child, dear child.
Quickly dear and soon forgotten.
It is dear bought honey that is lickt off a thorn.
Far fought, and dear bought, is good for Ladies.
If a man knew what would be dear, he would be but Merchant for a year.
Men may buy Gold over dear.
Wit bought is the wit best, if it be not bought too dear.
The love of a soldier doesn't last long; when the drum rolls; Good bye, dear lady.
Not all nice things are dear, but those that are dear are nice.
Wisdom is a good purchase, though we pay dear for it.
An egg is dear on Easter day.
That which is cheap is dear.
Another's bread costs dear.
Being hit by a dear person or by your lover is like eating raisins.
With the old year leave your faults, however dear.
One may buy gold too dear.
Refrain: (twice)
Dear Motherland,
you are heaven on earth,
your beauty, your loveliness,
ah, they are boundless.
Clear contracts make dear friends.
One may buy gold too dear.
A spring egg is dear at the Easter day.
Repentance costs dear.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
Hungry bear doesn't dance.
The man who can't dance says the band can't play.
You cannot dance well on only one leg.
If everyone is going to dance, who, then, would watch?
The hunt is like a dance for men, for the women the dance is the hunt.
Of what use is the veil if you are going to dance.
Those who can't dance blame it on the music.
He who is unable to dance blames it in the stony yard.
He who is unable to dance says that the yard is stony.
An old cat will not learn how to dance.
It is always the fat ones who lead the dance.
When the music changes, so does the dance.
If you are ugly, learn how to dance.
Dance in the sun, but turn your back to the clouds.
God is good, but never dance with a lion.
Dance, father, people's eyes don't eat, they just stare.
Only men laugh, only men weep, only men dance.
Get three darkovans together and they hold a dance.
A woman is never old when it comes to the dance she knows.
Even without drumbeats, the banana leaves dance.
He that beats the drum for the mad man to dance is no better than the mad man himself.
If the rhythm of the drumbeats changes, the dance steps must adapt.
When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them.
If we pay for the music we will take part in the dance.
God is good, but never dance in a small boat.
When the cat is out the mouse can dance.
As they pipe to me, I will dance.
The man who can't dance thinks the band is no good.
To sing to the deaf, to talk with the dumb, and to dance for the blind are three foolish things.
One who cannot dance blames the floor.
They who sing through the summer must dance in the winter.
Do not choose your wife at a dance, but in the field among the harvesters.
A bear that dances in your neighbor's house might soon dance in yours.
When the cat's away, the rats dance on the table.
Learn fe dance at home before you go abroad.
If you cannot dance, you will say the drumming is poor.
Those who can't dance say the music is no good.
With time, even a bear can learn to dance.
The girl who can't dance says the band can't play.
As you began the dance you may pay the piper.
Only chained bears dance.
Dance to the tune that is played.
When the cat is not home, the mice dance on the table.
To watch us dance is to hear our hearts speak.
If the rhythm of the drum beat changes, the dance step must adapt.
Who does not love to dance, does not love to sing.
A child brought up where there is always dancing cannot fail to dance.
When cat is absent, mice dance.
Grandma gave a dinar to dance, and two to stop.
If you can walk, you can dance; If you can talk, you can sing.
When the music changes, then the rhythm of the dance must change also.
If you can walk you can dance, if you can talk you can sing.
Timing has a lot to do with the outcome of a rain dance.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
We're fools whether we dance or not, so we might as well dance.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
A tree that refuses to dance will be made to do so by the wind.
The hottest music and dance always comes from home.
If you don't want a tail of a monkey to touch you then don't attend the monkey dance.
If you give bad food to your stomach, it drums for you to dance.
If you carry the egg basket do not dance.
He who cannot dance will say, The drum is bad!
You can't dance on one leg.
Even drumsticks are heavy on the way home after the dance.
If you dance with the devil you can't change him but he will change.
You must pay the fiddler if you want to dance.
Death fiddles and we dance.
If you dance, you must pay the piper.
When you go to dance, take heed whom you take by the hand.
When the crane attempts to dance with the house she gets broken bones.
Sparrows should not dance with cranes, their legs are too short.
A man dances all the same, though he may dance against his will.
A drunken may soon be made to dance.
It does not become the sparrow to mix in the dance of the cranes.
You must judge a maiden at the kneading trough, and not in a dance.
The poor must dance as the rich pipe.
Dance as if no one were watching. Sing as if no one were listening. And live every day as if it were your last.
When toads wrestle, the flies dance.
With gold in your pocket you are wise, you are handsome, and you dance well too.
When the cat's away the rats dance.
It's easy to take Kati to the dance, if she is also willing.
It's hard to dance in chains.
To dance according to someones pipe.
They that dance must pay the fiddler.
If you can't dance well, you'd better not get up.
If you go a tump-a-foot dance, you must dance tump-a-foot.
First harvest honey and wax during the day, then dance and play in the open during the evening.
Darkness caused to dance even him who cannot.
Women and glasses are always in danger.
Lasses and glasses are always in danger.
When your neighbor's wall breaks, your own is in danger.
Drunkards know no danger.
A danger foreseen is half-avoided.
Pretend you're in great danger, and you'll find out if you have any friends.
Women and glass are always in danger.
There is delight in danger and danger in delight.
A malignant sore throat is a danger; a malignant throat not sore is worse.
Better face a danger once than be always in fear.
Danger and delight grow on one stalk.
Without danger we cannot get beyond danger.
Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles.
It is pleasant driving when there is no danger of upsetting.
A danger foreseen is half avoided.
The thief is no danger to the beggar.
You are permitted in times of great danger to walk with the devil until you have crossed the bridge.
Faintheart is always in danger.
The danger past, the saint cheated.
The fish sees the bait not the hook; a man sees not the danger - only the profit.
Avoiding danger is not cowardice. Courage without discretion is no good.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
He that fears danger in time seldom feels it.
All's not lost that's in danger.
There is danger when a dog has once tasted flesh.
Men fear danger, women only the sight of it.
A danger foreseen is half-avoided.
The danger past, and God forgotten.
A warrior does not let a friend face danger alone.
If a frog leaves the swamp for the mountains, it means it is in danger.
The higher the monkey climbs, the more it is exposed to danger.
The more acquaintances, the more danger.
Danger begets caution.
Danger is next neighbour to security.
Danger is next neighbor to security.
The more acquaintance, the more danger.
When danger approaches, sing to it.
The house of danger is built upon the borders of safety.
When the fox preaches to the goose her neck is in danger.
The greater the fear the nearer the danger.
When the danger is past God is cheated.
The lives of doctors, the souls of priests, and the property of lawyers, are in great danger.
The lone sheep is in danger of the wolf.
When the danger has passed, the saints are soon forgotten.
A danger escaped is no guarantee for the future.
When the pirate prays, there is great danger.
He who turns aside avoids danger.
A woman and a glass are always in danger.
When there is real danger, the dogs don't bark.
He is out of danger who rings the alarm-bell.
The more danger, the more honor.
Danger can never by overcome without taking risks.
She only is chaste, who is chaste where there is no danger of detection: she who does not, because she may not, does.
Test the danger by the Carians.
The post of honor is the post of danger.
There is danger in delay. (Strauss, 1998 p. 695)
This nation doesn't believe in anything what Russia says. What a terrible danger it contains!
When we have gold we are in fear, when we have none we are in danger.
Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles.
A woman and a glass are always in danger.
When the old hag is in danger she must run.
You are permitted in times of great danger to walk.
The coward is always in danger.
Danger should be feared when distant, and braved when present.
He who delivers another from danger, and he who removes terror from the mind, are the greatest of friends.
The post of honour is the post of danger.
Child that has been burnt will understand the danger of fire.
The eye watches always ahead, but the poor nose is in danger.
He who waits for a dead man's shoes is in danger of going barefoot.
Danger is never conquered without danger.
Only two things matter in this world: a son and a daughter.
An indulgent mother makes a sluttish daughter.
A bad labour, and a daughter after all.
The son of a son is dear, the son of a daughter a stranger.
Hurriedness is not necessarily the daughter of foolishness, and delay is not necessarily the daughter of cowardice.
My daughter, as long as you keep quiet, much money will paid for your marriage.
My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
A mother and daughter fought, and fool thought they meant it.
A diamond daughter turns to glass as a wife.
Truth is God's daughter.
He who would the daughter win, with the mother must begin.
Who the daughter would win, with mamma must begin.
Your son is your son until he marries, but your daughter is your daughter until you die.
Would you know your daughter? See her in company.
What is marriage, mother? Daughter, it is spinning, bearing children, and weeping.
A spoiled son becomes a gambler, while a spoiled daughter becomes a harlot.
As you would have a daughter so choose a wife.
I speak to you, daughter; hear it daughter-in-law.
If you want the daughter, you must kiss the mother.
One daughter helps to marry the other.
A good son-in-law is like the acquisition of a new son; a bad one is like the loss of your daughter.
Look at the mother, marry the daughter.
Your son can be a prince, your daughter will be a mother.
Praise your horse tomorrow, your son when he has a beard, your daughter when she is married and yourself never.
A tender-hearted mother makes a scabby daughter.
When Anger and Revenge get married, their daughter is called Cruelty.
Clever father, clever daughter; clever mother, clever son.
If you flatter the mother, you will embrace the daughter.
After your daughter is married, there comes a number of potential sons-in-law.
Look at the mother before marrying the daughter.
Alas! father, another daughter is born to you.
When a good offer comes for your daughter, don't wait till her father returns from market.
A silly daughter teaches her mother how to bear children.
The mother keeps on caring for her daughter while the daughter keeps on craving for her husband.
O daughter, i'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it.
As a daughter grows up she is like smuggled salt.
No wise man takes responsibility for an eighteen-year-old daughter.
Runaway son, a shining jewel; runaway daughter, tarnished.
A father voodoos with his son and a mother voodoos with her daughter.
First a daughter, then a son, and the family's well begun.
My son's my son till he gets him a wife; my daughter's my daughter all of her life.
The daughter of a spry old woman makes a poor housekeeper.
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
A son is a son 'till he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all her life.
He that would the daughter win Must with the mother first begin.
A son is a son till he gets him a wife, but a daughter's a daughter the rest of your life.
Marry you son when you will, and your daughter when you can.
Better a daughter that has been slept on than a son who has been hanged.
Truth is the daughter of time.
A bustling mother makes a slothful daughter.
The lucky man has a daughter for his first-born.
Marry your son when you please, your daughter when you can.
Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter.
A busy women has a lazy daughter, a lazy women has a busy daughter.
Have a close look at the mother and then marry her daughter.
One likes the priest, someone else his wife, I prefer his daughter.
I tell my daughter, my daughter-in-law should understand it.
Truth is time's daughter.
Like father, like son; like mother like daughter.
Between promising and performing a man may marry his daughter.
An oleit Mother makes a fweir Daughter.
Make not twa mewes of ane daughter.
Sit, sit, daughter, sit, because good fortune is coming.
Don't kiss blacksmith's daughter.
You reproach your daughter, but you mean your daughter-in-law.
Truth is the daughter of time.
Between promising and giving a man should marry his daughter.
Some fathers love another man's daughter most.
Marry your son when you please, your daughter when you can.
After the daughter is married, then come sons-in-law in plenty.
Beauty's sister is vanity, and its daughter lust.
A son will learn from his father to make a living, a daughter will learn from her mother to cut clothes.
Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter.
The lucky man has a daughter for his first-born.
He who has both money and bread, may choose with whom his daughter to wed.
Mother, what is marrying? Spinning, bearing children, and crying, daughter.
I say it to you, daughter; hear it, daughter-in-law.
Do not buy a carrier's ass, or marry an innkeeper's daughter.
Judge of the daughter by the mother.
Like mother, like daughter.
If the mother had never been in the oven, she would not have looked for her daughter there.
Mary will foster a daughter like herself.
Such mother, such daughter.
Such mother, such daughter.
The son of your son is yours, the son of your daughter is not.
See how the boy is with his sister and the other ones of his home lodge and you can know how the man will be with your daughter.
O daughter, I'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it.
Truth is God's daughter.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will spare yourself one hundred days of tears.
Events follow one another like the days of the week.
Imitate the sundial's ways, count only the pleasant days.
Autumn days come quickly like the running of a hound on the moor.
Two happy days are seldom brothers.
The cock goes to town for only four days and returns home a peacock.
If there is only one earring among seven daughters, there will always be a quarrel on festival days.
There is no flower that lasts ten days and no might lasts ten years.
Anyone who goes hungry for three days will be inclined to steal.
Woman was born three days earlier than the devil.
The umbrella was made for rainy days, the white man uses it for the sun.
The life of a guest is seven days.
One who marries for love alone will have bad days but good nights.
Our wasted days are the days we never laugh.
Treat the days well and they will treat you well.
Days are many, what is one is life.
Days cannot be tied in a bundle.
My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
Even when months and days are long, life is short.
After three days without reading, talk becomes flavorless.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days - then on the third day give him a hoe.
Fish and guests smell when they are three days old.
A new broom is good for three days.
No wonder lasts more than three days.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
The wedding lasts for two or three days, but the trouble stays longer.
Put off for one day and ten days will pass by.
Even the most welcome guest is more than enough for three days.
Better one day a man than ten days a woman.
A person is a guest for one or two days, but becomes an intruder on the third.
When peaches flower and ripen, days and nights have the same length.
When pisa burned, it rained three nights and three days.
Strong legs are needed to carry good days.
On Saint Candelora day, if it's snowing or raining, there'll be another forty days of winter.
Better reap two days too soon than one too late.
Men can bear all things except good days.
Better reap two days early than one day late.
Many seek good nights and waste good days.
Seven days is the length of a guest's life.
Fish and guests smell in three days.
St. Swithin's Day, if thou dost rain, for forty days it will remain; St. Swithin's Day, if thou be fair, for forty days 'twill rain no more.
No wonder lasts over three days.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days; on the third day, give him a hoe.
You warm up something for ten days and it goes cold in one.
There is no flower that remains red for ten days, and no power that lasts for ten years.
A day of reading is a day of gain; a day without reading is ten days of loss.
Yesterday, today and tomorrow -- these are the three days of man.
The evening crowns the days.
It takes three years to learn to be a man of integrity; it only takes three days to degrade.
To learn what is good, a thousand days are not sufficient; to learn what is evil, an hour is too long.
The loss of one night's sleep is followed by ten days of inconvenience.
You don't become an expert in five days.
Dark days and storms heighten the appreciation of sunshine.
Fish and visitors smell after three days.
Drunken days have their tomorrow.
Fish and visitors smell in three days.
days are countries.
Life is made of two days. One which is sweet and the other is bitter.
The white penny will become useful in your dark days.
Fish and guests smell at three days old.
For the diligent, a week has seven days; for the slothful, seven tomorrows.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
The person who has many faults is usually the first to criticize others. Put something off for one day, and ten days will pass.
Put something off for one day, and ten days will pass.
After three days the place of the guest is behind the door outside.
Every wonder lasts three days.
Fish and guests stink after three days.
Fresh fish and new-come guests smell in three days.
All days' evening is not come.
The law is three days older than the earth.
The poor and wretched man has long days.
There isn't a Holy Week without the fifty days, nor the fifty days without the Sirocco.
Whoso is tired of happy days, let him take a wife.
He is so wise, that he goes upon the ice three days before it freezes.
He was born upon St. Galtpert's night, three days before luck.
He who marries for love has good nights and bad days.
Long talk makes short days.
A guest and a fish after three days are poison.
They made the garlic a bride, its smell did not come out for forty days.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
Any home not built for hot days or rains is not a home.
Although the number of unhappy days is endless, yet life is better than death.
He wha marries for love without money, has merry nights and surry days.
A fool has many days.
Do not cease to drink beer, to eat, to intoxicate thyself, to make love, and to celebrate the good days.
Drunken days have their tomorrow.
Some days you get the bear, other days the bear gets you.
Do not be wise in words – be wise in deeds.
Perform good deeds; you will not regret them.
Your own deeds will long be baptized on you.
Words are mere bubbles of water; deeds are drops of gold.
The wise man's wealth lies in good deeds that follow ever after him.
Knowledge is not the main thing, but deeds.
Words are dwarfs, deeds are giants.
Not all brave words become deeds.
Great deeds come from times of shortage.
Our greatest deeds we do unknowingly.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
Deeds are fruits, words are only leaves.
If deeds are wanting, all words appear mere vanity and emptiness.
I feel pain that envy is exchanged for beautiful deeds.
Deeds are love, and not sweet words.
He who does kind deeds becomes rich.
He who does many bad deeds can expect a big one in return.
A man of words and not deeds, Is like a garden full of weeds.
Mercy resides in God; deeds are in men.
He is noble who performs noble deeds.
A man is judged by his deeds, not by his words.
Big in body, but small in deeds.
Deeds are love, and not fine phrases.
Good words and no deeds are rushes and reeds.
Good deeds are the best prayer.
Great deeds are reserved for great men.
Great deeds, great songs.
If you are astonished at Moses' deeds, you will be more astonished at Pharaoh's. Not-Moses declared himself to he a prophet, but Pharaoh declared himself to be God.
Good deeds never leave home, bad ones echo a thousand miles.
Words are mere bubbles of water, but deeds are drops of gold.
The worst person doesn't lack some good deeds.
Deeds speak louder than words.
Judge men by their deeds, not be their creeds.
Great deeds are reserved for great souls.
Words and deeds are not weighed in the same balance.
Good deeds banish bad ones.
People are slaves to charity/ good deeds.
Big words seldom accompany good deeds.
Big words seldom go with good deeds.
Let deeds match words.
Words are female, deeds are male.
He who instigates good deeds is greater than the one who performs them.
deeds, not words.
Noble deeds are done in silence.
The beauty of the play is to do deeds and speak little.
Words are feminine, deeds masculine.
Words will not do for my aunt, for she does not put faith even in deeds.
Good words and bad deeds deceive both wise and simple.
As the tree is known by its fruit, so is the wicked man by his deeds.
You bring your own evil deeds to light.
Good deeds remain, all things else perish.
Qualities of a moral order are measured by deeds.
A low-class man will just talk deeds are the hallmark of a gentleman.
Knowledge is not the main thing, but deeds.
Fine words dress ill deeds.
Good words and no deeds.
Fine words without deeds go not far.
A man o' words, and no o' deeds, is like a garden fu' o' weeds.
You will reach your destination even though you travel slowly.
If you ask for directions rudely, you might end up a long distance from your destination.
Do not believe that you will reach your destination without leaving the shore.
A tilted load won't reach its destination.
No matter how long and winding the road might be, it will always lead you to your destination.
It is not only the hare, the tortoise arrives also at the destination.
It is not only the fox, even the snail arrives at its destination.
He who does not know to look where he came from will never get to his destination.
Do not hope to reach a destination without leaving the shore.
Despise not a snail for its slow and struggling movement; it has a destination and with time it shall arrive.
He said: "Woe!" and the boat sank with him. He said: "Alas!" and the rudder broke. The young man said: "Ah god!" and the boat reached its destination.
Success is a journey not a destination.
He who is desperate will squeeze oil out of a grain of sand.
A desperate person will even hold on to a knife edge.
Desperate ills require desperate remedies.
If you are desperate, you must not be choosy.
Buy from desperate people, and sell to newlyweds.
Buy from people who are desperate, and sell to newlyweds.
Desperate evils require desperate remedies.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Desperate cuts must have desperate cures.
Don't praise the day before sunset.
Each day provides its own gifts.
One day of hunger is not starvation.
Better one day as a lion than a hundred as a sheep.
The first day you meet, you are friends. The next day you meet, you are brothers.
A man can never be perfect in a hundred years; but he may become corrupt in less than a day.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
Rome was not built in a day.
Praise the day at sunset.
The day will come for the despot to pay.
For age and want save while you may, no morning sun lasts a whole day.
No matter how long the night, the day is sure to come.
When the bee comes to your house, let her have beer; you may want to visit the bee's house some day.
When do we have a day of fast? When there is no bread and ham in the larder.
A little rain each day will fill the rivers to overflowing.
The day will come when cats have horns and dutchmen will be circumcised.
There is no god like one's stomach; we must sacrifice to it every day.
The day did not know that night had fallen.
To be drunk every day is also a regular life.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
On a rainy day many offer to water the chickens.
A day after the fair.
There is no day without its night.
Rome and pavia weren't built in a day.
The first day a guest, the second day a guest, the third day a calamity.
Man's mind changes throughout the course of a day.
A day in prison is longer than a thousand years at large.
A day of travelling will bring a basketful of learning.
He is as welcome as the first day in Lent.
A friendly word is like a spring day.
You can't have two forenoons in the same day.
The day you are leaving is not the time to start your preparations.
A heavy burden does not kill on the day it is carried.
The day before yesterday and yesterday are not the same as today.
Only believe a woman one day later.
He who gets drenched at dawn has the rest of the day to dry out.
May your life be like a wildflower, growing freely in the beauty and joy of each day.
The best thing God did was to make one day follow another.
The day after is the student of the day before.
God's greatest act was to make one day follow another.
Day will not break thanks to the cackling of the chicken.
The day cuts off the promise of the night.
Put by for a rainy day.
Sorrow is like rice in an attic: you use a little every day and at the end it is all gone.
Gold is a debt we can repay, but kindness not till our dying day.
One day of rain far surpasses a whole year of drought.
Open your door to a good day and prepare yourself for a bad one.
There will be a day for the oppressor when he will be crushed like garlic.
The night rinses what the day has soaped.
That which is done at night appears in the day.
What you cannot see during the day, you will not see at night.
A white piastre for a black day.
The bucket goes down the well every day - some day it won't come up again.
Not a long day, but a good heart, rids work.
The day you go naked, is the day you will meet your father.
An obstinete child does not suffer save on the day of festival.
A traveller does not make a mess where he had made a camp as he might one day come back.
Absent friends get further away every day.
Beat your wife on the wedding day, and your married life will be happy.
The day you decide to do it is your lucky day.
The absent get further off every day.
If you see Mt. Fuji, a hawk, and an eggplant on New Year's Day, you will be forever blessed.
Better than a thousand days of diligent study is one day with a great teacher.
Day has its eyes, night has its ears.
If every day was a sunny day, who would not wish for rain?
Misfortune does not restrict his visits to one day.
Some people want to be praised for the rest of their lives for what they have done well for one day.
The day your horse dies and your money's gone, your relatives change into strangers.
A chick that will grow into a cock can be spotted the very day it hatches.
A day of hunger is not starvation.
There is no day that goes without the moon and no day that goes without sunrise and sunset.
The one who shows off himself in every place will one day search for where to hide.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days - then on the third day give him a hoe.
A day without work can yield a night without sleep.
Take each day as it comes.
Fair and softly goes far in a day.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.
Every dog hath its day.
Debts remain from day to day.
He that woos a widow must woo her day and night.
He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
Tomorrow is another day.
The day of happiness is short.
Plant each day and you will eat.
Literal meaning: Save your white penny for your black day.
Older than you by a day, more knowledgeable than you by a year.
Let your trouble tarry till its own day comes.
Apelles was not a master painter the first day.
What good is giving sugar to the dead?
Don't cut off the monkey's tail before it is dead.
You inherit from the dead, not from the sick.
Do not dispose of the monkey's tail before he is dead.
What is said over the dead lion's body, could not be said to him alive.
The earth is God's bride -- she feeds the living and cherishes the dead.
Even the dead in their family vaults enjoy being in large company.
When a dead tree falls, the woodpeckers profit from his death.
On a dead tree there are no monkeys.
Every one has his place: the dead in the cemetery and the living at the table.
Truth speaks even though the tongue were dead.
Dead men tell no tales.
When the sculptor is dead his statues ask him for a soul.
Don't praise my good fortune before i'm dead and buried.
The only truly dead are those who have been forgotten.
Don't measure a wolf's tail until he is dead.
Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour.
He is dead who is faultless.
Only the pallbearers know the weight of the dead.
The dead to his burial ground, and the living to his fooling around.
A hero only appears once the tiger is dead.
The hero appears only when the tiger is dead.
Those who had some shame are dead.
No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim.
Until the snake is dead, do not drop the stick.
Crows bewail the dead sheep, and then eat them.
I am not dead yet. i can suffer a bit more.
What's the use of consulting a dead man's horoscope?
Silence is an attribute of the dead; he who is alive speaks.
Silence is an attribute of the dead; he who is alive speaks.
The dead cannot come to kinsmen's aid.
There are two kinds of perfect people: those who are dead, and those who have not been born yet.
While the butchers were arguing, the cow dropped dead.
A dead man feels no cold.
He is dead that is faultless.
There is but one good mother-in-law and she is dead.
He that gapes until he be fed, well may he gape till he be dead.
Work for nought makes folks dead lazy.
Beating the dead is a sin.
Before a man learns to hang he is half dead.
Every hare may pluck the dead lion's mane.
He that has lost his credit is dead to the world.
Let the dead rest.
It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead the rest of your life.
It is not the time to go for the doctor when the patient is dead.
Three people can keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
Dead horses can't kick.
My donkey is dead; let no more grass grow.
There are three things that have to be done quickly: burying the dead, opening the door for a stranger, and fixing your daughter's wedding.
A dead man does not speak.
The only good Indian is a dead Indian.
The ass dead, the corn at his tail.
The nest made, the bird dead.
Pretend to be dead and the bull will leave you alone.
Of the dead, nothing but good.
Say only good things about the dead.
A dead man's will is the mirror of his life.
A living dog is been than a dead lion.
A living ass is better than a dead doctor.
Better a living donkey than a dead doctor.
If pride were a disease, how many would be already dead?
One living pope is better than ten dead.
Credit is dead, bad pay killed it.
Of the great and of the dead either speak will or say nothing.
When I'm dead, everybody's dead – – and the pig too.
When the lion is dead the hares jump upon his carcase.
Kings matthias is dead, justice is lost.
Seldom lies the dell dead by the dyke side.
Dead though the oil-palm may be, the maggot in it lives on.
A dead elephant cannot be covered by a lotus leaf.
The dead will go to the village where the cock doesn't crow.
Darg-flea tell him pickeny him mustn't say him dead till him ketch pon finger nail.
Man noh dead, noh call ‘im duppy.
Alive one hour, dead another.
The dead with the dead, and the living with the living.
What good is horse when the grass is already dead?
Monreale, a city without comfort, either it rains, or the wind blows, or bells ring for the dead.
Better ruined ten times than dead once.
It's ill waiting for dead men's shoes.
Don't sell the bearskin before the bear is dead.
Even hares pull a lion by the beard when he is dead.
Dead dogs don't bite.
Blessed are the dead that the rain rains on.
A great lance-thrust to a dead Moor.
He that marries a widow will often have a dead man's head thrown into the dish.
A dead man pays no debts.
Dead men do not bite.
It is better to be the cub of a live jackal than of a dead lion.
No matter how beautiful and well crafted a coffin might look, it will not make anyone wish for death.
Death has no modesty.
You can't escape death and guests.
Life is -- not separate from death.
If vodka, tar and sauna don't help, the disease leads to death.
Shame is worse than death.
Old age is not a joy, but death is not a gain.
What is sport to the boy is the death of the bird.
Sleep is the cousin of death.
The death of an elderly man is like a burning library.
A sheep does not lament the death of a goat's kid.
When a dead tree falls, the woodpeckers profit from his death.
Death is blind.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
Death is a camel that lies down at every door.
Every man goes down to his death bearing in his hands only that which he has given away.
One sip of wine is an antidote against death, cupfuls poison life.
Feign death and the bull will leave you.
It is better to sit down than to stand, it is better to lie down than to sit, but death is the best of all.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the angel of death.
Where life is exhausted, death comes.
Life is a temporary stop, death is the journey home.
If the bathroom and a brandy cannot help a man, then death is imminent.
There is a remedy for all things save death.
Death is the bride of life.
When death is there, dying is over.
Death is not found behind mountains but right behind our shoulders.
Close to the Tsar, close to death.
Too many doctors caused the boy's death.
Death is a scar that never heals.
Death is the key that will open a miser's coffers.
Fear is no obstacle to death.
The death throes of an elephant are not so annoying as a living flea.
Exile is the brother of death.
Nobody mourns an unnoticed death.
Nothing in this world is certain but death and next winter's snows.
Nothing is certain but death and taxes.
Desire first, death afterwards.
Death has its advantages too ie it benifits those who inherit.
The death of not a relative is a wedding.Compared to a death of a relative.
The pensioner gets the wages of the death.
If we knew where death resided, we would never stay there.
The goat says: "nobody willingly walks to his own death.”.
It is a little thing to starve to death; it is a serious matter to lose one's virtue.
Love is sometimes difficult but death even more so.
Living in worry invites death in a hurry.
Love is as strong as death.
A fair death honors the whole life.
Old men, when they marry young women, make much of death.
Ignorance is the death of the living.
Death rides a fast camel.
What is play to the strong is death to the weak.
There is help for everything, except death.
Well-done outlives death.
Too many sacks are the death of the ass.
When death comes, it will not go away empty.
Death is in front of the old person and at the back of the young person.
Fame lives on after death.
Better is the trouble that follows death than the trouble that follows shame.
Death and marriages make changes.
Death is the poor man's best physician.
Death is the poor man's doctor.
Death is never at a loss for occasions.
There is a remedy for everything; it is called death.
Death squares all accounts.
Foot firm till death.
To change one's habits has a smell of death.
What is play to one is death to another.
All the water in the sea doesn't even reach the knees of the man who fears not death.
Until death there is no knowing what may befal.
He hauls at a long rope who expects another's death.
He would be a good one to send for death.
Thank you, pretty pussy, was the death of my cat.
Many dogs, rabbit's death.
He, who is afraid of death, loses his life.
The death of one - the bread of the other.
A man who is trampled to death by an elephant is a man who is blind and deaf.
Death spares no one.
Death rights everything.
Only death is certain.
We are all equal before death.
One man's death is another man's life.
Death said to the man with his throat cut, "How ugly you look."
There is an herb for every kind of sickness but not for death.
Death considers not the fairest forehead.
People should be mourned at their birth, not at their death.
He who lives fast goes straight to his death.
The old man looks death in the eye, the young man keeps him behind his back.
When death comes, the rich man has no money and the poor man no debt.
No dew ever competed with the sun.
Man's life is like a drop of dew on a lea£.
Don't stay on the dew until the sun reaches its highest.
To love someone who does not love you is like shaking a tree to make the dew drops fall.
In an ant colony, the dew is a flood.
The person who doesn't scatter the morning dew will not comb gray hairs.
If you rise too early, the dew will wet you.
You are like dew even before it rains.
A mother's tenderness for her children is as discreet as the dew that kisses the earth.
People want to avoid the dew before they become wet.
Choose your lodging before dark and leave before the morning dew.
When riding on top of an elephant do not assume there is no dew in the thicket.
In the ant's house, the dew is a flood.
Love is like dew that falls on both nettles and lilies.
You find snails on the mountain slope with the dew from the ravines.
There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew, and that is fishing for a clam in the clam chowder.
There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew.
In the ant's house, the dew is a flood.
The cow that's first up gets the first of the dew.
Beauty is only skin deep.
Still water runs deep.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
The patient thief is as a tree whose root runs deep as he waits for the sweet fruit..
Deep doubts, deep wisdom; small doubts, little wisdom.
There is a deep sea between saying and doing.
A great ship asks for deep waters.
You have to dig deep to bury your daddy.
We are all wanderers on this earth. Our hearts are full of wonder, and our souls are deep with dreams.
Once deep pools, now a crossing place.
Breed up a serpent and he will strike when you are in deep slumber.
Beauty is skin deep.
When there are no great tigers in the deep mountains, even a monkey can become king.
Whoever crossed the river at the fordable point, knows how deep the river is.
The deep sea can be fathomed, but who knows the hearts of men?
If you are digging a pit for your enemy, don't make it too deep, for you may fall into it.
Plough your furrows deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone.
Be careful for deep water and dogs that do not bark.
A sheep's bite is never more than skip deep.
If you want to build high, you must dig deep.
He who wants to build high must dig deep.
A clever pig extracts a deep root.
Deep swimmers and high climbers usually don't die in their beds.
I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years.
Still waters are deep.
There may be deep bottoms in still waters.
Sorrow also sings, when it runs to deep to cry.
Deep down everyone's a ferengi.
When the crocodile says that the river crossing is deep you must believe it.
It is better to go home and make your net than to gaze longingly at the fish in the deep pool.
Pleasures are shallow, sorrows deep.
It takes more than one cold day for a river to freeze three feet deep.
It's not that the well is too deep, but rather the rope is too short.
The virtue of a woman does not go deep but her passion knows no limit.
Great doubts deep wisdom. Small doubts little wisdom.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
Quiet people are like still water their deep.
Man invented language to satisfy is deep need to complain.
Only birds with long beaks can drink from deep pots.
Deep calls unto deep.
He who has crossed the flood knows how deep it is.
Wide experience makes for deep tolerance.
There's always a deep breath before a plunge.
Deep draughts, and long morning slumbers, soon make a man poor.
Gold lies deep in the mountain, dirt on the highway.
Beauty is only skin deep, ugliness goes to the bone.
He who has crossed the ford knows how deep it is.
Plough deep, while sluggards sleep; and you shall have corn to sell and keep.
The woman is cold water that kills you; deep water that you drown in.
Beauty is only skin deep.
Plough deep whilst sluggards sleep, And you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
He who digs too deep for a fish, may come out with a serpent.
As high as Heaven, as deep as Hell.
Fish seek a deep place, men seek a better place.
Our pleasures are shallow, our sorrows are deep.
Silent men like still waters, are deep and dangerous.
Only he that has traveled the road knows where the holes are deep.
Only a fool will use both his legs to test how deep a spring is.
Deep calls to deep. (Strauss 1994, p. 695)
Beauty is but skin deep.
High climbers and deep swimmers never grow old.
Deep calls to deep.
Still waters run deep.
Still waters run deep.
A diamond with a flaw is worth more than a pebble without imperfections.
Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without one.
A diamond daughter turns to glass as a wife.
A diamond on a dunghill is a precious diamond still.
A thief is a thief, whether he steals a diamond or a cucumber.
Better to have a diamond with a few small flaws than a rock that is perfect.
Once you have found your first diamond, you will never give up looking.
Diamond cuts diamond.
The diamond in your belly sparkles on your face.
A diamond with a flaw is better than a common stone that is perfect.
A diamond doesn't lose its value due to lack of admiration.
A pebble and a diamond are alike to a blind man.
The diamond fallen into the dunghill is not the less precious for it.
A barley corn is better than a diamond to a cock.
Diamond cut diamond.
Character is a diamond that scratches every other stone.
Diamond cut diamond.
He that lives on hope has but a slender diet.
The best physicians are Dr. Diet, Dr. Quiet, and Dr. Merryman.
A little with quiet is the only diet.
The best doctors are Dr. Diet, Dr, Quiet, and Dr. Merryman.
He that lives on hope has a slender diet.
Whatsoever was the father of the disease, an ill diet was the mother.
Diet cures more than the lancet.
Diet cures mair than doctors.
He that lives upon hope has a slim diet.
Children will thrive best on varied diet/life.
All sunshine makes a desert.
The man who builds his own throne rules over a desert.
Pearls are worthless in the desert.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Do good and throw it in the tigris and god will repay you in the desert.
Don't be hard and don't be soft and don't desert your friend for your own share.
Unfenced garden - fenced in desert.
Who says the oasis in the desert is happy because of its hidden spring of water?
Life is uncertain so eat your desert first.
Don't demand that what you write in the nile will be read in the desert.
When the nile knows a secret the desert will soon know it too.
As the sands of the desert are to the weary traveler, so are words to he who loveth silence.
A home without a mother is a desert.
An animal that gives birth to a young one in the desert must suckle it in the desert.
The greatest crime in a desert is to find water and keep silent about it.
Any water in the desert will do.
Talent without skill is like a desert without an oasis.
In the desert of life the wise travel by caravan, while the fool prefers to travel alone.
Working on the land is better than praying in the desert.
Do a good thing and throw it in the river. God will reward you in the desert.
He can get money in desert.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Man is preceded by forest and followed by desert.
Desert and reward seldom keep company.
A great city. a great desert.
In the desert sand is cheap.
The man who builds his own throne rules over a desert.
In the desert of life the wise person travels with a group, while the fool prefers to travel alone.
Sunshine all the time makes a desert.
In the desert of life the wise person travels by caravan.
In the desert of life the wise travel by caravan, while the fool.
The only difference between the cucumber and water is the moving of the teeth.
When water goes over your head, what difference if it's one fathom or a hundred fathoms.
The difference between them is like that between sky and earth.
The difference between appearances and truth is the same as between warping and weaving.
Death don't see no difference ‘tween the big house and the cabin.
When a drunken man meets a mad man, he learns the difference between being merely drunk and being truly mad.
Between brothers, whether the trial is won or lost, makes no difference.
The difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
The difference between adults and children is that adults don't ask questions.
Even a dog knows the difference between being stumbled over and being kicked.
It makes a difference if the pope is on your side.
The only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping stones is the way you use them.
The difference is wide that the sheets will not decide.
We are all Adam's children, but silk makes the difference.
There is no difference between the thief and the looker-on.
Between man and woman there is little difference, but vive la difference.
To a good rider, right or left makes no difference.
There is no difference between the thief and the looker-on.
The only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping.
"How well you live makes a difference, not how long." (Seneca)
Difficulties make you a jewel.
When one is prepared, difficulties do not come.
When difficulties are overcome they begin blessing.
As soon as you have finished a job, you start appreciating the difficulties.
A wise man who knows proverbs, reconciles difficulties.
Difficulties relate only to necessity.
A herbalist that refuses to ask laymen what leaves he looks for in the bush, must have difficulties getting what he wants.
A wise man who knows proverbs can reconcile difficulties.
Inferior men do not begin undertakings for fear of difficulties. Average men begin, but desist once difficulties appear. Men of superior nature never give up until they achieve their ends, however many the difficulties that appear.
Difficulties teach a man.
Remember to keep a calm mind in difficulties.
Never trust the advice of a man in difficulty.
In times of difficulty, friendship is on trial.
Little is spent with difficulty, much with ease.
It is easy to die - the difficulty lies in living.
All war follow a demonstrate failure of difficulty diplomacy.
Go to a man who is in difficulty and you'll get a bargain.
The honorable man lives in difficulty.
England's difficulty is Ireland's opportunity.
Beautiful things are secured with most difficulty.
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
An opportunity is found with difficulty and easily lost.
He suffers from the same disease. [He is in the same difficulty.].
If you are digging a pit for your enemy, don't make it too deep, for you may fall into it.
If you're in a hole, stop digging.
He that digs up a grave for his enemy, may be digging it for himself.
If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging.
Eating is sweet, digging is weariness.
Getting money is like digging with a needle. Spending it is like water soaking into the sand.
Making money is like digging with a needle.
You cannot hook trout? Try digging clams.
The best way to get someone to stop digging his heels in is to dig out the sand around him.
Watch your character; it becomes your destiny.
The same destiny awaits both the wise man and the fool.
Chance all; see what destiny yields.
No man can make another's destiny and all the wishing in the world will not make it so.
Even the stone you trip on is part of your destiny.
the destiny of a coward comes from over him.
Fate and self-help share equally in shaping our destiny.
No matter where you go, your destiny follows you.
Weddings and widowings are by the hand of destiny.
Every man forges his own destiny.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the nation and its destiny.
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned. You can't escape your destiny.
It doesn't take time to change one's destiny.
Destiny often withholds the crown from the very person who deserves it.
As people go their own way, destiny goes with them.
Often one finds destiny just where one hides to avoid it.
If you have a poor father that is destiny; if you have a poor father-in-law, that is your mistake.
Destiny leads the willing but drags the unwilling.
If destiny does not fit you, fit yourself to destiny.
If the people wanted life, destiny better respond.
He must stand high that would see the end of his own destiny.
They must stand high who would see their own destiny.
New day -- new destiny.
New day - new destiny.
As people go their own way, destiny goes with them.
You often meet your destiny on the road you take to avoid it.
One meets his destiny often in the road he takes to avoid it.
Let me tell you about my fate: it is an insult. Let me explain it to you: it is a disgrace.
Were I to tell my neighbour about my fate, he would heap insults upon me.
I looked into the water. My destiny was drifting past. I was born on an ill-fated day.
If destiny does not fit you, fit yourself to destiny.
It is Austria's destiny to rule the world.
Destiny leads the willing but drags the unwilling.
Resignation is fitting for destiny.
Nothing is so difficult that diligence cannot master it.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Where luck is wanting, diligence is useless.
A great fortune depends on luck, a small one on diligence.
A year's harvest counts on spring; a man's success counts on his diligence.
Diligence is the vehicle on the paths of Mountains of Books; endurance is the vessel on the courses of the Seas of Learning.
Diligence brings delight.
Diligence is the mistress of success.
Diligence is a great teacher.
Care and diligence bring luck.
Earning encourages diligence.
Diligence are the base for intelligence.
Diligence is the vehicle on the paths of mountains of books.
All work asks for diligence.
Poverty won't allow him to lift up his head; dignity won't allow him to bow it down.
The mocked may grow up to dignity, but the mocker will never outgrow his juvenile behaviour.
Dignity and an empty sack is worth the sack.
He who hurries cannot walk with dignity.
Dignity does not consist in a silk dress.
Dignity is one thing that can't be preserved in alcohol.
Love and dignity do not dwell together.
Love forgets dignity.
He who takes his rank lightly raises his own dignity.
A flag follows the direction of the wind.
If we don't change our direction we're likely to end up where we're headed.
If you keep your head and heart going in the right direction you don't have to worry about your feet.
Fate can be taken by the horns, like a goat, and pushed in the right direction.
The house sweeper's buttock is never at one direction.
You always fall down in the direction of where you bend over.
From the direction of the wind.
Always ride your horse in the direction it's going.
A gentle breeze blowing in the right direction is better than a pair of strong oars.
No matter how far you have walked in the wrong direction certainly you have to turn back and take the right direction.
A cock says it's because of the situation it is faced with that it has its knees in the opposite direction.
Speed will get you nowhere if you are headed in the wrong direction.
If all pulled in one direction, the world would keel over.
A gentle breeze blowing in the right direction is better than a pair of strong oars.
My inclination first leads me in one direction, then in the opposite.
Those who live near the water look into the mountains. They don't look in their own direction.
He who has diarrhea knows the direction of the door without being told.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
We can't change the direction of the wind, but we can adjust the sails.
First deserve and then desire.
The path to your heart's desire is never overgrown.
If the eye do not admire, the heart will not desire.
We desire to bequest two things to our children–the first one is roots; the other one is wings.
Desire first, death afterwards.
Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire.
Winds blow counter to what ships desire.
He that flatters you more than you desire either has deceived you or wishes to deceive.
Often does one desire what one does not need.
Desire is worse then compulsion.
Don't kill the man at the count's desire.
Conquer what you desire.
Love is a crocodile in the river of desire.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
Unbridled gratification produces unbridled desire.
What the eye does not admire the heart does not desire.
Go home and make a net if you desire to get fishes.
Darkness is the owl's desire.
If you desire many things, many things will be seem but a few.
We easily disbelieve those things which we desire not.
When two agree in their desire, One sparke will set them both on fire.
Desire is nourished by delay.
Idleness is a fool's desire.
Desire of God and desire of man are two.
From sudden desire of halim he fell in the pot.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
Many desire the tree who pretend to refuse the fruit.
We soon believe what we desire.
Hunger goes in a straight line, desire turns in circles.
Everyone wants to go to heaven; the desire is there but the fortitude is not.
Opportunity creates desire.
Much pleasure and little grief is every man's desire.
Desire beautifies what is ugly.
Desire nothing that would bring disgrace.
Desire of glory is the last garment that even wise men put off.
Mad desire, when it has the most, longs for more.
What is permitted us we least desire.
It is a strange desire to seek power and to lose liberty. (Francis Bacon)
Desire never stops, it increases even after satisfaction.
A wish is a desire without an attempt.
There is no worse curse than to desire a man's death.
Darkness is the owl's desire.
It is easier to suppress the first desire than to satisfy all that follow it.
Out of extreme desire for achieving something, he got in trouble.
A high price moderates desire.
A dram of discretion is worth a pound of wisdom.
An ounce of discretion is better than a pound of knowledge.
Avoiding danger is not cowardice. Courage without discretion is no good.
Discretion is knowing how to hide that which we cannot remedy.
Discretion is a way of hiding what you cannot help.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of learning.
There can be no true pleasantry without discretion.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
Wit without discretion is a sword in the hand of a fool.
Disgrace is like the grain of a tree trunk -- time makes it bigger instead of erasing it.
That which in the beautiful woman is grace, in the ugly woman turns to disgrace.
Handsome poverty is no disgrace.
The disgrace of the city is the fault of the citizens.
There is no disgrace in honest labour.
Fire is more bearable than disgrace.
Praise to the face is open disgrace.
One may survive distress, but not disgrace.
Better retreat in honor than advance in disgrace.
The rabble, as of old, truckles to success, and hates a favourite in disgrace.
Poverty is no disgrace, but it's a great inconvenience.
I prefer death to disgrace.
It is a disgrace to be praised by those who deserve no praise.
Let me tell you about my fate: it is an insult. Let me explain it to you: it is a disgrace.
Were I to tell my neighbour about my fate, he would heap insults upon me.
I looked into the water. My destiny was drifting past. I was born on an ill-fated day.
It is a blessing in disguise.
A calamity is often a blessing in disguise.
Praise undeserved is satire in disguise.
The praise of fools is censure in disguise.
The heir's tears are but a mask to disguise his joy.
Appearance can be deceiving. A wolf can disguise himself as a sheep.
You can disguise wealth but you can't hide poverty.
If the devil is going to disguise himself, it will be as a monk or a lawyer.
A good fortune may forebode a bad luck, which may in turn disguise a good fortune.
A real friend is one who takes the hand of his friend in times of distress and helplessness.
Hope supports men in distress.
Better to eat beans in peace than to eat meat in distress.
One man driven by distress does as much as thirty.
Relations last longer when the family is in distress.
The members of the family are in distress, but the idols are worshipped.
Company in distress makes trouble less.
Two in distress makes sorrow the less.
In distress there is no law.
Company in distress makes trouble less.
What people in distress most wish for, they most readily believe.
The sun is red at dawn and red at sunset. Great men are unchanged in prosperity and in distress.
Company in distress makes trouble less.
Two in distress makes sorrow less.
Two in distress makes sorrow less.
The dog that digs deepest finds the bones.
He who digs a pit for others falls into it himself.
He who eats when he is full digs his grave with his teeth.
Those who digs an evil hole will fall into it.
He who digs a pit will fall into it himself.
Who digs the well should not be refused water.
He who digs someone else's grave shall fall in it himself.
He who digs a pit for someone else, often falls into it himself.
A silent pig digs the deepest root.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
He that digs up a grave for his enemy, may be digging it for himself.
The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry.
He who insults another, digs two graves.
The hole the crab digs takes on the shape of its shell.
The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry.
Who digs a pit for others will fall in themselves.
He who digs a pit for another falls into it himself.
Whoever digs a pit for his neighbor should dig it his own size.
He who digs a pit for others must invariably fall into it.
The one who digs a hole for another will fall in it himself.
Glutton: one who digs his grave with his teeth.
Hard by a river he digs a well.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
Who digs a hole for another, falls in it himself.
He who digs a hole for someone, will fall in it himself.
He who digs a pit for others, falls into it himself.
Whoever digs a hole for someone else, will fall in it themselves...Aki másnak vermet ás, maga esik bele.
Who digs a pit will himself fall therein.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
A pig used to dirt turns its nose up at rice.
The more you stir dirt, the worse it stinks.
Sweep the dirt from in front of your own door, and don't worry about your neighbour's.
Scandal will rub out like dirt when it is dry.
When you throw dirt, you lose ground.
When dirt comes to honour it know not what to be.
He that deals in dirt has ay foul fingers.
What won't choke will fatten and clean dirt is no poison.
He that makes himself dirt is trod on by the swine.
Who cleans up the dirt washes away happiness.
In war, lies are as abundant as dirt.
A handful of dirt is pleasing if it's your own land.
Admire the person with dirt under his fingernails.
If you beat even new floor mats, dirt will come out.
Dirt is dirtiest upon clean white linen.
Dirt is dirtiest upon the fairest spot.
Don't throw dirt into the well that gives you water.
We must all eat a peck of dirt before we die.
We must eat a peck of dirt before we die.
Meddle with dirt and some of it will stick to you.
Gold lies deep in the mountain, dirt on the highway.
The mother said "I will die", the wife said "I will marry", and in the meantime the house is full of dirt.
I would I had as meikle pepper as he counts himself worthy Mice dirt.
He that deals in dirt has aye foul fingers.
Dirt parts company.
Gold's father is dirt, yet it regards itself as noble.
It's a well-known fact, dirt stinks more when stirred.
Skin and bones and a little dirt between.
Cast no dirt into the well that gives you water.
Dishing the dirt.
Every Flower must grow through Dirt.
Water aid does not remove completely the dirt.
Cowgirl Up Cos The Buckle Don't Shine in The Dirt.
It has been blowing hard--the dirt has been blown into high places.
Don't divide the spoil before the victory is won.
Divide to conquer.
Don't divide the fur on the bear.
Happiness multiplies as we divide it with others.
Divide and rule.
Do not divide the spoil till the victory is won.
Knaves and fools divide the world.
Divide and rule.
Divide and rule.
Three kinds of people die poor: those who divorce, those who incur debts, and those who move around too much.
By day they're ready to divorce, by night they're ready for bed.
The name of love's finance is divorce.
A man finds many faults in a woman when he wants to divorce, and finds many charms in one's fianc6e.
The betrothed of good is evil; the betrothed of life is death; the betrothed of love is divorce.
One fault does not warrant divorce of a wife.
The easiest way to get a divorce is to be married.
Divorce is the sacrament of adultery.
It is easy for the single guy to divorce his wife.
Erring is human, forgiving is divine.
He is as good a divine as Judas was an apostle.
Few believe to err is human and to smack, divine.
On Saint Thomas the Divine kill all turkeys, geese and swine.
A diviner cannot accurately divine his own future.
To err is human, to forgive divine.
Without divine assistance we can achieve nothing.
Without the aid of the divine, man cannot walk even an inch.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
The best way to see divine light is to put out your own candle.
To err is human; to forgive is divine.
Yield to divine power.
To the trustworthy man belongs a divine voice. The barge on the river and the chariot on the road come to him.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
Few believe to err is human and to smack, divine.
Speech is silver, silence is golden; speech is human, silence is divine.
Marrying is human. Having children is divine.
If vodka, tar and sauna don't help, the disease leads to death.
Sickness accompanies a waning moon; a new moon cures disease.
The cure is worse than the disease.
A disease known is half cured.
The remedy is often worse than the disease.
If pride were a disease, how many would be already dead?
If tar, hard liquor and sauna do not cure; the disease is fatal.
He who conceals his disease cannot expect to be cured.
Elderliness is not a disease, but a richness.
Much meat, much disease.
Victims of the same disease have a lot to talk about.
People with the same disease share sympathy.
There is no physician who can cure the disease of love.
A disease known is half cured.
A good doctor treats both the patient and the disease.
Sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease.
Whatsoever was the father of the disease, an ill diet was the mother.
Disease is soon shaken By physic soon taken.
Every disease has a medicine except for death.
Lying is the disease and truth is the cure.
Old age is a disease that you die from.
A disease known is half cured.
The cure may be worse than the disease.
The remedy is worse than the disease.
The best of nursing may overcome the worst disease.
If a sauna, whiskey and tar do not help, the disease is fatal.
The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease.
Elbow-grease is a great preventative of disease.
A satiated man doesn't know what's hunger, a healthy man doesn't know what's disease.
The beginning of health is to know the disease.
To conceal disease is fatal.
He suffers from the same disease.
Old age is in itself a disease.
You don't know how to suffer from the future's disease.
Before thirty, men seek disease after thirty, disease seeks men.
An imaginary ailment is worse than a disease.
Some remedies are worse than the disease.
He suffers from the same disease. [He is in the same difficulty.].
Better the devil you know (than the one you don't).
Light a candle for God and another for the devil.
Talk of the devil and he's sure to appear.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the devil.
I have two masters -- God and the devil; I work for the devil until lunch then I follow the Lord.
A witch-wife and an evil is three-halfpence worse than the devil.
The devil places a pillow for a drunken man to fall upon.
"like will to like,” as the devil said to the coal-burner.
The devil never grants long leases.
The worst devil is the one who prays.
The devil can swallow a woman but he can't digest her.
Where the devil cannot put his head he puts his tail.
When woman reigns the devil governs.
Woman was born three days earlier than the devil.
Eat with the devil but give him a long spoon.
In dark weather the devil is in the air.
Behind the cross stands the devil.
The rich devour the poor, and the devil devours the rich and so both are devoured.
If the devil is going to take me,” said the courtesan, "let it be in a coach.
The little devil is hiding in me.
The devil is not so black as he is painted.
The devil is wiser not because he's the devil, but because he's old.
He who steals in order to give to God can only get advice from the devil.
Calling the devil is not the same as seeing him come.
The man to whom God gives no children, the devil gives nieces and nephews.
Neither money nor the devil can remain in peace.
A devil takes one and makes two, a saint takes two and makes one.
Slowness comes from God and haste from the Devil.
God is in the details and so is the devil.
Even the devil slaves for the fortunate.
Better a devil you know than a hundred strangers.
The devil hides himself in details.
It is easier to beat two devils into a child, than one devil out.
The devil sups with the tax collector.
A devil with fine manners can still carry you only to hell.
The devil's wiser more on account of his age than on account of being the devil.
Talk of the devil, and you'll hear the rustle of his wings.
He who has gold is served by the devil.
The devil was good looking at eighteen, and course tea makes a bitter first cup.
He must have a long spoon who sups with the devil.
He that takes the devil into his boat must carry him over the sound.
If it's wrong to eat the devil, it's wrong to drink his broth.
Where god builds a church, the devil will build a chapel.
He who sups with the devil has need of a long spoon.
The devil is cunning.
When every man gets his own the devil gets nothing.
Where the hedge is lowest, the devil leaps over.
The husband's mother is the wife's devil.
The devil looks after his own.
The devil is in the details.
The devil is civil when he is flattered.
Where the devil can't go himself, he sends an old woman.
Were a woman rules the house, the devil is serving-man.
He who has once invited the devil into his house, will never be rid of him.
The devil catches most souls in a golden net.
The devil is never so black as he is painted.
The devil likes to souse what is already wet.
Wherever there is a pretty spot, the devil plants a monastery or a lord.
Pulling the devil by the leg is a bad grip.
Don't bid the devil good day till you meet him.
Speak to the devil and you'll hear the clatter of his hooves.
A woman can beat the devil.
You are permitted in times of great danger to walk with the devil until you have crossed the bridge.
Talk of the devil - and the devil appears.
When the devil grows poor he becomes a tax collector.
Rosary is hand, the devil at heart.
The devil is not so ugly as he is painted.
When a man hurries, the devil smiles.
The devil lives beneath a slattern woman's skirts.
You must answer the devil in his own language.
Man is his own devil.
A church without a leader is prey for the devil.
When your devil was born, mine was going to school.
When the devil is old he turns hermit.
One devil does not make hell.
He who sups with the Devil should have a long spoon.
He devil tempts all, but the idle man tempts the devil.
One devil drives out another.
All saint without, all devil within.
Don't mention the cross to the devil.
He knows where the devil has his tail.
Of three things the devil makes a salad: advocate's tongues, notaries' fingers, and a third that shall be nameless.
Speak of the Devil and he appears.
The devil will tempt Lucifer.
If you do good to the devil, out of gratitude he will deliver you to hell.
The devil does not sleep.
He is afraid of it, as the devil fears holy water or incense.
He owed the devil a journey.
Everybody sees only his own dish.
It is the pot that boils but the dish that gets the credit.
High birth is a poor dish on the table.
Revenge is a dish that tastes better cold.
Even sugar itself may spoil a good dish.
Marriage is a covered dish.
He who burns his mouth on the soup will blow on a cold fish dish.
Welcome is the best dish.
Great birth is a very poor dish at table.
Cook in June and July, dish it out in August and September.
He that marries a widow will often have a dead man's head thrown into the dish.
When cold revenge is served, the dish is always very good.
Revenge is a dish which is best served cold.
A red lacquer dish needs no decoration.
Better a small fish than an empty dish.
Welcome is the best dish on the table.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
Revenge is a dish that should be eaten cold.
Let a dog get at a dish of honey, and he will jump in with both legs.
Dish and spoon cannot be without jingling.
It is not good to eat cherries from the same dish with persons of high rank.
He that marries a widow will have a dead man's head often thrown in his dish.
When a woman prepares a dish which others find unpalatable, she says that she prepared it to suit her own taste.
Love is far better than the poi dish or the fish bowl.
Once you've used enough seasoning; using more will spoil the dish.
Tasty is the fish on someone else's dish.
The busy fly is in every man's dish.
All's lost that's put in a riven dish.
Flies, dogs. and mimics are the first to rush to the dish.
Revenge is a dish that can be eaten cold.
Welcome is the best dish on the table.
Don't make little of your dish, for it may be an ignorant person who judges it.
No dish pleases all palates alike.
Better are some small fish than an empty dish.
Dig your well before you're thirsty.
There is enmity between to dig and to let dig.
If you've nothing to do, dig a spinster's grave.
When all things spoke the potato said, ‘set me warm, dig me warm, eat me warm, that's all i want.'
If we dig precious things from the land, we will invite disaster.
It is little use to dig a well after the house has caught fire.
If you want a well, only dig in one place.
You have to dig deep to bury your daddy.
The person who God shows a treasure to must dig it out himself.
Crabs dig holes according to the size of their shells.
If you dig a hole to bury a person but instead of burying that person you may be the one to be buried in this place.
If you dig a grave for others, you might fall into it yourself.
Dig a well every day to drink water every day.
If you want to build high, you must dig deep.
He who wants to build high must dig deep.
Men dig their graves with their teeth.
Greedy eaters dig their graves with their teeth.
To beg of the miser is to dig a trench in the sea.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: I climb a tree without arms.
If you dig a pit for me, you dig one for yourself.
When brothers quarrel, take a hoe and go and dig; and when they make it up, take a basket and patter the crop.
Those who seek revenge must remember to dig two graves.
Heaven has a road, but no one travels it; Hell has no gate but men will dig to get there.
He who seeks revenge should remember to dig two graves.
Thatch your roof before rainy weather, dig your well before you become parched with thirst.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: climb a tree without arms.
They who dig the wells never drink from them.
It's unworthy to dig a new pit to fill up an old one.
If she can't dig or cook send her back to her father.
Even when you dig a soft place, you still leave the garden.
Dig the well before you are thirsty.
The person who pursues revenge should dig two graves.
dig a well then close the well, but do not fire a worker.
First dig a well, then steal the minaret.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
If you dig a pit for others, you might fall into it yourself.
Whoever digs a pit for his neighbor should dig it his own size.
Dig the hoe in well in the vineyard and pull out the bad growth and the weed.
Don't dig a hole for someone else, as you will fall into it yourself.
Dig your well before you're thirsty.
Epicures dig their graves with their teeth.
When the sun rises, I go to work. When the sun goes down I take my rest, I dig the well from which I drink, I farm the soil which yields my food, I share creation, Kings can do no more.
Many rats cannot all at once dig a hole for their home.
Those who are carrying elephants home on their heads, need not use their toes to dig up crickets on the way.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
Laughter is the shortest distance between two people.
Keep five yards from a carriage, ten yards from a horse, and a hundred yards from an elephant; but the distance one should keep from a wicked man cannot be measured.
There is a great distance between said and done.
At a distance enjoy the fragrance of flowers.
If you ask for directions rudely, you might end up a long distance from your destination.
When a lion runs and looks back, its not that he is afraid, rather he is trying to see the distance he has covered.
Distance is disaffection.
Who takes a lion at a distance fears a mole present.
The distance between heaven and earth is no greater than one thought.
A single hair hides the mountain in the distance.
Conversation shortens the distance, singing lightens the load.
One stupid woman recognizes another one from a distance.
A village that you can see in a distance do not require a guide.
Friendship likes distance.
Condemn a man within earshot; praise him at a distance.
Distance lends enchantment.
Absence is the enemy of love; as the distance is from the eyes, so it is from the heart.
A minimal error at the start leads to a wide divergence in the distance.
Respect spiritual beings but keep your distance.
Distance tests a horse's strength; time reveals a marls character.
Over a distance of a thousand miles only humanity works, not power.
The shortest distance between two people is a smile.
A friend at hand is better than a relative at a distance.
It is easy to be brave from a safe distance.
Distance is the best remedy against an evil-disposed man.
Distance plants enchantment.
The shortest distance between two points is a straight line.
It should be better to blame friends at a distance.
Between saying and doing there is a great distance.
Old people see best in the distance.
Success isn't how far you got, but the distance you traveled from where you started.
Slander is more deadly than weapons; weapons wound from close range, slander hurts from a distance.
Better be friends at a distance than enemies at home.
Who loves with his heart sees from a distance.
Cavaliers, priests, and dangerous places, speak nicely about them but keep your distance.
Dogs that bark at a distance bite not at hand.
A smile shortens the distance.
Don't run too far, you will have to return the same distance.
Working and painting are better from a distance.
There is some distance between Peter and Peter.
The lion is a beautiful animal, when seen at a distance.
Don't run too far, you will have to return the same distance.
Respect is greater from a distance.
Distance lends enchantment to the view.
Do not yell "dinner” until your knife is in the loaf.
Heed the troubadour, burn the dinner.
When a cock invites a cockroach for a birthday party, he has prepared dinner for himself.
Enjoy breakfast all alone, share lunch with your best friend and give dinner to your enemy.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
After dinner, rest; after supper walk a mile.
After lunch, rest; after dinner take a walk.
Eat beans for lunch and have no friends at the dinner table.
Seven sets of ewers, but no dinner nor lunch.
Hope is a great breakfast but a poor dinner.
After dinner a kuru kills a man or kidnaps a woman.
A friend's dinner is soon dressed.
To go as fast as a friar that is invited to dinner.
It's nice to have a spoon in time for dinner.
He that feeds upon charity has a cold dinner and no supper.
If you have a loitering servant, set his dinner before him and send him on an errand.
Pride is no substitute for a dinner.
When flatterers meet, the devil goes to dinner.
Who has wine for dinner, he has water for breakfast.
Never ask a favor of someone till they have had their dinner.
When traveling do not calculate the distance, at dinner don't think of how much.
Better a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
It is not the lamb that should go and ask the lion if it has had dinner.
After dinner sit awhile; after supper walk a mile.
Call me anything but late for dinner.
For a good dinner and a gentle wife you can afford to wait.
After dinner stand a while, or walk nearly half a mile.
Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop, only a few sit down to his table.
Without work there is no dinner.
The kind man feeds his cat before sitting down to dinner.
After dinner, mustard.
A friends Dinner is soon dight.
He sups ill who eats up all at dinner.
A short mass and a long dinner.
Naught must disturb a man of worth at dinner.
After dinner rest a while, after supper walk a mile.
A good dinner helps deliberation.
He does not show a decent quality even over a good dinner.
He that waits on another man's trencher, makes many a late dinner.
Better a dinner of herbs than a stalled ox where hate is.
Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop.
No Work, no Dinner.
Herrings are quite small to be served at Christmas dinner.
Better a good dinner than a fine coat.
When flatterers meet the devil goes to dinner.
Don't help a bull out of a ditch, for when he's out he'll butt you.
In the ditch where water has flowed, it will flow again.
If one sheep leaps over the ditch, all the rest will follow.
Better is a leap over the ditch than the entreaties of good men.
One blind man followed the other and they both fell into the ditch.
He who is an ass and takes himself to be a stag finds his mistake when he comes to leap the ditch.
A mule that thinks he is a stag discovers his mistake when he comes to leap over the ditch.
Every ditch is full of your after-wits.
If the blind lead the blind, both fall into the ditch.
When we least expect it, the hare darts out of the ditch.
He made a pit and digged it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made.
Better go about than fall into the ditch.
A fall into a ditch makes you wiser.
A fall into a ditch, a gain in your wit.
You can't hold another fellow down in the ditch unless you stay down there with him.
Better go around than fall into the ditch.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
It is not for nothing that the devil lays himself down in the ditch.
When blind leads the blind, both fall into the ditch.
Half a leap falls into the ditch.
Woe to the man that entrusts his secrets to a ditch.
He made a pit and dug it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made.
From the ditch to the water jump.
The nearest boor is the nearest kinsman when the calf lies in the ditch.
One blind man leads another into the ditch.
He that takes too great a leap falls into the ditch.
Explaining something to an ignorant person is harder than making a camel jump over a ditch.
It is better to leap over the ditch than trust to the pleadings of good men.
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
He that lives on hope will die fasting.
Old habits die hard.
Better to die than to live on with a bad reputation.
He who is free of faults, will never die.
He who does not cultivate his field, will die of hunger.
Without wood the fire would die.
He who has nothing to die for has nothing to live for.
You must be willing to die in order to live.
Anyone who plants a tree before they die has not lived in vain.
Before the fat one slims, the slim one will die.
Women are stronger than men, they do not die of wisdom.
If everybody said bread and cheese, you put your head down and die.
If you're a reed-player, why did your father die of typhoid fever?
It's better to fly and stay alive than to die a hero.
He whose heart is aroused by love will never die.
Doubtful the die, and dire the cast.
Hope is the last to die.
When you die, you rejoice, and the world cries.
A nibbling rabbit can also die of overfeeding.
A man's youth will never die, unless he kills himself.
Words die and men keep on living.
People live with their own idiosyncrasies and die of their own illnesses.
The young may die, the old must die.
Better to die on your feet than to live on your knees.
We were born to die anyhow.
He who really wants to die will not complain if he is buried standing up.
Live and learn, die and forget it all.
One can't die if he's brave. Even when he die his name lasts forever.
If you trust before you try, you will repent before you die.
We all will die, but our tombs will differ.
If you are born fat you will not die thin.
A tree that grows in the shade of another one will die small.
Three kinds of people die poor: those who divorce, those who incur debts, and those who move around too much.
Quarrels end, but words once spoken never die.
If you are going to die you will die in the dark even if you have been in the candle business.
He who doesn't die on the battlefield slips in the bathtub.
Those who die through ignorance are many; those who die because they are intelligent are few.
A baby that does not cry will die on its mother's back.
A weaning baby that does not cry aloud, will die on its mothers back.
You must die for your own sacred conviction.
Your secret is your blood - when you shed it you die.
He who lives more lives than one, more deaths than one must die.
It is better for the eyes to die than the heart.
For a fly to die on an ulcer is not bad.
Better to die than to live in shame.
Tigers die and leave their stripes, but humans die leaving their names.
Ants die in sugar.
Anxiety will not let you die of hunger.
If the banana pest doesn't die it will always reach at the ripe banana.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live you life in a manner so that when you die the world cries and you rejoice.
Fools die young and look sickly.
Cowards die many times, but a brave man only dies once.
He begins to die that quits his desires.
Old be, or young die.
A man may die old at thirty and young at eighty.
Laugh till you cry, sorrow till you die.
As a man lives, so shall he die.
He that marries ere he be wise, will die ere he thrive.
If I were to trade in winding sheets, no one would die.
He that feeds himself from waiting could die of hunger.
He who finds what has not been lost, will chance to die before he is ill.
A man has learned much who has learned how to die.
Young men may die, but old men must die.
Your son is your son until he marries, but your daughter is your daughter until you die.
He may die of wind but he'll never die of wisdom.
A swan would die with pride only for its black feet.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, prepare to die.
There die as many lambs as wethers.
You have to suffer a lot or die young.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice.
You may never die before death arrives.
To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of.
He who lives by hope will die by hunger.
See Naples and then die.
The man who lives only by hope will die with despair.
One with the courage to laugh is master of the world almost as much as the one who is ready to die.
The best way to get praise is to die.
If the rich could hire the poor to die for them, the poor would make a very nice living.
It is a fine thing to die for one's fatherland, but a still finer thing to live for it.
If sorrow would not talk it would die.
A person who has children does not die.
The ox will die but its harness remains.
A child does not die because the mother's breasts are dry.
The good die young.
You are learning all your life and you die stupid.
The goat that has many owners will be left to die in the sun.
He who leaves a good name does not die poor.
Talk to a priest and die a thousand deaths.
Milk and honey have different colours, but they share the same house peacefully.
Talking about bulls is altogether different from being in the arena.
A sheep cannot bleat in two different places at the same time.
A different man, a different taste.
Even children of the same mother look different.
Different fields, different grasshoppers; different seas, different fish.
Different men have different opinions; Some like apples, some onions.
Seven sons of one mother, and each one of a different mind.
Seeing is different from being told.
"come see me” and "come live with me” are two different things.
The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door but live in different cells.
Insanity is doing the same thing in the same way and expecting a different outcome.
Same donkey, different saddle.
If you have not been to two different bazaars, then you do not know what the best value is.
Our crosses are hewn from different trees.
Saying and doing are two different things.
Every story can be told in different ways.
Each head, a different judgement.
Men and women sleep on the same pillow, but they have different dreams.
Each country's customs are different, just as each meadow's grass is different.
There are seven different kind of weather in one autumn night.
A house full of people is a house full of different points of view.
Different culture means different custom.
Different people have different personality.
Different background means different thinking.
A different way of thingking in every person.
Each time it is different.
Here there will be different buns, said the baker, he "sat down" on the bread shovel.
If there are too many teachers or leaders with different ideas, the follower will not do nothing and learn nothing.
When a poor man gets a little money, his thoughts go off in ten different directions.
They asked the female cat why her kittens were of different colors; she said she is embarrassed to say no.
To die is to stop living but to stop living is something entirely different than dying.
Flowers look different in different eyes.
If you want to avoid being cheated, ask for prices at three different stores.
The dragon has nine sons, each different from the others.
We all like lamb; each has a different way of cooking it.
Different flowers look good to different people.
The broad-minded see the truth in different religions; the narrow-minded see only the differences.
Dream different dreams on the same bed.
Seeing is different than being told.
By different methods different men excel.
Different strokes for different folks.
Different sores must have different salves.
Different strokes for different folks.
The bailiff's cow and another's cow are two different cows.
To change and to improve are two different things.
Every fool is different.
To change and to change for the better are two different things.
Every tale can be told in a different way.
Like the body that is made up of different limbs and organs, all mortal creatures exist depending upon one another.
Change seeds taking them from different calabashes.
Cutting by the tongue is different from cutting by the knife.
Two guests love a different song.
The account of the donkey is different from that of the donkey-man.
Different strokes for different folks.
Different men like different things.
Different pursuits suit different ages.
Different strokes for different folks.
Hay smells different to lovers and horses.
It's surely nice to be engaged and drunk, but it's different to have hangover and marriage.
Just as people's faces are different, so are their opinions different.
The torah can be interpreted in 49 different ways.
The rabbit has different eyes than the owl's.
Desire of God and desire of man are two different things.
Our crosses are hewn from different trees.
A priest that's made a pet of and a pig that's made a pet of are the two worst pets of all. However, all priests are different. And in our times some pigs are kept as pets.
Just as people's faces are different, so are their opinions different.
To see me and come live with me are two different things.
Every flower has a different smell.
He utters in his language something different from what he ponders in his mind.
It is well to buy oil as well as salt. [Different remedies should be at hand when required.].
Eleven don't make a dozen.
One boy is more trouble that a dozen girls.
Ideas are worth a dime dozen, but people who put them into action are priceless.
Six of one, and half a dozen of the other.
Foolish tongues talk by the dozen.
One cow breaks the fence, and a dozen leap it.
A baker's dozen.
Eleven don't make a dozen.
Six of one and half a dozen of the other.
A dove has no place amongst the crows.
A secret is like a dove: when it leaves my hand it takes wing.
It is not honour for an eagle to vanquish a dove.
He who makes himself a dove is eaten by the hawk.
Better a dove on the plate than a woodgrouse in the mating place.
If a man is as wise as a serpent, he can afford to be as harmless as a dove.
The village slatternly wench has the form of a dove, the heart of a fox, and the mind of an toad.
When a dove begins to associate with crows its feathers remain white but its heart grows black.
A falcon will not breed a dove.
The wagtail hops and flaps its wings, but the male dove feeds and coos.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove.
The fried dove/pigeon (or chicken) will not fly into your mouth.
Better to sit all night than to go to bed with a dragon.
It is ill done to chain a dragon for roasting your meat.
Better be the head of a lizard than the tail of a dragon.
Unless a serpent devour a serpent it will not become a dragon. Unless one power absorb another, it will not become great.
The dragon teaches you that if you want to climb high you have to do it against the wind.
The dragon has nine sons, each different from the others.
With money you are a dragon; with no money, a worm.
With money, a dragon -- without it, a worm.
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.
Better to sit all night than to go to bed with a dragon.
A dragon will be teased by a shrimp in a shoal water; a tiger will be bullied by a dog on a treeless plain.
Oh hyena, you cannot drag away hides without making a sound.
If you have to drag a dog to the hunt, neither he nor his hunting is any good.
Put a rope around your neck and many will be happy to drag you along.
If you put a rope around your neck, many people will be glad to drag you by it.
He couldn't drag a herring off the coals.
No one is dragged to heaven by the hair.
Even when a goat knows that it is being dragged to graze, it still resists.
The fates lead the willing man; an unwilling man they drag.
They are not free who drag their chains behind them.
A scalded cat dreads cold water.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A scalded cat dreads cold water.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
My bark, once struck by the fury of the storm, dreads again to approach the place of danger.
He whom a serpent has bitten dreads a slow-worm.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A burnt child fears [or: dreads] the fire.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Great mansions have slippery doors.
I will do anything except bear the responsibility of guarding a house that has two doors.
If you deal in camels, make the doors high.
The greatest step is that out of doors.
Beauty may open doors but only virtue enters.
Three things drive a man out of doors: smoke, dropping water, and a shrew.
Walls have ears, doors have eyes.
You a lady, I a lady, who is to put the sow out of doors?
It's a big wind that blows on small doors.
Patience can break through iron doors.
Trust, but locate the doors.
The person who deals in camels should make the doors high.
Men shut their doors against the setting sun.
Good clothes open all doors.
Death closes all doors.
It is a sin against hospitality to open the doors and shut up the countenance.
You may shut your doors against a thief, but not against a liar.
He who wants to tell the truth will always stand before closed doors.
You surround your vineyard with thorns - place doors and locks on your mouth.
At open doors dogs come in.
At open doors dogs come in.
A small key opens big doors.
He who listens at doors hears more than he desires.
Trust in God but lock your doors.
Money comes in from doors and windows!
Flattery sits in the parlour when plain dealing is kicked out of doors.
It is no fun to guard a house with two doors.
It is a double pleasure to deceive the deceiver.
Grief shared is half grief; joy shared is double joy.
There is no phrase that doesn't have a double meaning.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
Who is not ashamed of his sins, sins double.
The poor man eats at double cost.
Lovers' fights, double loves.
A gift with a kind countenance is a double present.
Shared joy is a double joy; shared sorrow is half a sorrow.
Shared joy is double joy.
Who gives in need, gives double.
Hypocritical piety is double iniquity.
There is no phrase without a double meaning.
The quickest way to double your money is to fold it over and put it back in your pocket.
A double jointed arm follows the leg action.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
Tongue double brings trouble.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
Be careful of your enemy once and of your friend a thousand times, for a double crossing friend knows more evil.
Not to be ashamed of sin is to sin double.
Double charges rive cannons.
To marry is to halve your rights and double your duties.
When luck joins in the game, cleverness scores double.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
When luck joins in the game, cleverness scores double.
Double charging will break a cannon.
When in charge, ponder. When in trouble, delegate. When in doubt, mumble.
Doubt is the beginning not the end of wisdom.
Doubt makes the mountain which faith can move.
When in doubt of what is right, consult your pillow overnight.
The wise man affirms little and doubt much.
When in doubt who will win, be neutral.
Inquire seven times then doubt a person.
Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Doubt is the key to all knowledge.
When in doubt, lie.
When in doubt, surprise them.
When in doubt, don't.
When in doubt, find out.
When in doubt, win the trick.
Quiet people, whether wise or dull, get the benefit of the doubt.
A little doubt saves many a mistake.
Doubt whom you will, but never doubt yourself.
When in doubt, do nothing.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Love, should i escape your snares, i doubt that i can be trapped by any other means.
Do well, and doubt no man; and do weil, and doubt all men.
Jealousy is nourished by doubt.
If there is still doubt do not accuse.
It's better to be silent and thought a fool, than to speak up and remove all doubt.
Where there is doubt, there is freedom.
When in doubt, win the trick.
A little doubt saves many a mistake.
Doubt whom you will, but never doubt yourself.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool that to speak and remove all doubt.
He who cannot doubt, is a stupid man.
When in doubt, leave it out.
"Where there is doubt, there is freedom." legal, meaning when in doubt the prisoner has to be freed.
The camel driver has his plans and the camel has his.
The driver of an ass must by necessity know its wind.
A mule driver is not aware of the stink of his animals.
There was a time they loved an accordionist, and now the time has come where they love a tractor driver.
The same rain that drenches the slave also drenches the slave driver.
The camel and his driver -- each has his own plan.
Death rides with the drinking driver.
He is not a bad driver who knows how to turn.
Before God and the bus driver we are all equal.
The best driver will sometimes upset.
For a stubborn ass a stubborn driver.
He who has not yet reached the opposite shore should not make fun of him who is drowning.
A drowning man takes hold of his own hair.
Those who have not crossed the river yet should not laugh at those who are drowning.
A fool will laugh when he is drowning.
A drowning man will clutch at straws.
The drowning man is not troubled by rain.
A drowning man would catch at razors.
He that is drowning shouts though he be not heard.
A drowning man clings to a blade of grass.
A confused man is like the drowning man who asks for pears from the willow tree.
A drowning man grabs at a straw.
Don't drown yourself to save a drowning man.
More desperate than a drowning person.
A drowning man catches even at a stalk of straw.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
It is nothing at all, only a woman drowning.
A good swimmer is not safe against drowning.
The drowning man is not troubled by rain.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
A drowning man catches at the water.
If it's drowning you're after, don't torment yourself with shallow water.
A soldier who doesn't dream of becoming a general is a bad one.
He who cannot sleep can still dream.
A dream grants what one covets when awake.
No sleep, no dream.
Beauty is not so much what you see as what you dream.
The dream of cats is all mice.
Beauty doesn't exist, men only dream it.
Hope is the dream of the waking.
The money you dream about will not pay your bills.
Sleep on a bed of silver and dream of gold.
Hope is the dream of a soul awake.
All of life is a dream walking, all of death is a going home.
Dream different dreams on the same bed.
There are no witnesses to a dream.
Having a goal is just a dream with a deadline.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision.
A good well-lived today makes every yesterday a dream of a good future, and every morning is a vision of hope.
If I tell you my dream, you might forget it. If I act on my dream, perhaps you will remember it, but if I involve you, it becomes your dream too.
As one makes his bed, so he sleeps his dream.
You can make the dream bigger than the night.
The talk of the day is the dream of the night.
The whole world is a dream, and death the interpreter.
Another's misfortune is only a dream.
The night walks the same road as the dream.
Oh whirlwind, I dispatched you towards Agade. What did you accomplish in Agade? The dream was favourable!
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow is but a vision.
Dream of a funeral and you hear of a marriage.
You can share the same bed but you can't share the same dream.
I tried to draw the eyebrow, but I ended up poking the eye.
Drawn wells have sweetest water.
Draw not thy bow before thy arrow be fixed.
Do not draw your sword to kill a fly.
As the camel falls to its knees, more knives are drawn.
Pleasent words will draw the snake from its hole.
A young foal and an old horse draw not well together.
If God bids thee draw, he will find thee a rope; if he bids thee ride, he will find thee a horse.
Spread your mantle only as you can draw it.
You can conquer the whole world with words, but not with drawn swords.
One lie draw ten after it.
You cannot draw blood from a turnip.
Never draw your dirk when a blow will do it.
When a sickle is drawn, it in turn draws the tree to which it is hooked.
Ill-matched horses draw badly.
Death is a giant against whom even the Tsars must draw weapons.
Seek not ever to draw to thyself in love-whispering another's wife.
To draw water into one's own rice field.
Draw the bow but don't shoot -- it is a bigger threat to be intimidated than to be hit.
Do not put your foot further than you can draw it back again.
Weil worth aw, that gars the plough draw.
The waggon must go whither the horses draw it.
The beginning and end of one's life is to draw closer to the fire.
If you want clear water, draw it from the spring.
It is easy to push a cart drawn by twelve oxen.
As good haud, as draw.
Sike a man as thou would be, draw thee to sike company.
It's difficult to draw pure water from a dirty well.
Neither draw me without cause, nor return me without honour.
Since the wine is drawn it must be drunk.
Marriages sealed with rings end with drawn knives.
The world is a barrel, for all to draw from.
A well which is drawn from is improved.
Precepts may lead, but examples draw.
Let not your sword be drawn at any man's bidding.
As the camel falls to its knees, more knives are drawn.
Draw a cake to satisfy one's hunger.
When the sword of rebellion is drawn, the sheath should be thrown away.
One cannot draw blood from a turnip.
One needs more than one indication to draw conclusions.
Don't draw another's bow, don't ride another's horse, don't mind another's business.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
There is no doctor on the day you die.
The doctor must heal his own bald head.
If the patient dies, the doctor has killed him, but if he gets well, the saints have saved him.
Hide not the truth from your confessor, your doctor, or your lawyer.
A physician's neighbor is never a doctor.
Pay the doctor, praise the lord.
Drink a glass of wine after your soup and you will be stealing a ruble from the doctor.
Herring in the land, the doctor at a stand.
A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are.
Annoy your doctor and sickness comes in laughing.
Don't call in the doctor after the funeral.
Unless God does it, what can a doctor do?
If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get ill.
If your time ain't come not even a doctor can kill you.
He is a fool that makes his doctor his heir.
One doctor makes work for another.
A young doctor makes a humpy churchyard.
A young doctor means a new graveyard.
Doctor Luther's shoes do not fit every parish priest.
Drink upon salad costs the doctor a ducat; drink upon eggs costs him two.
God cures the sick, and the doctor gets the money.
Every invalid is a doctor.
It is not the time to go for the doctor when the patient is dead.
Never consult a doctor who has never been ill himself.
God heals, and the doctor gets the money.
Of doctor and crazy, we all have a little.
If you have a friend who is a doctor, then send him to your enemy's house.
A doctor will take care of the rich man; the poor man is cured with work.
Better no doctor at all than three.
The doctor demands his fees whether he has killed the illness or the patient.
An old patient is better than a new doctor.
A doctor is only a doctor when he has killed one or two patients.
A doctor and a clown know more than a doctor alone.
A living ass is better than a dead doctor.
Better a living donkey than a dead doctor.
God heals and the doctor has the thanks.
No good doctor ever takes physic.
The doctor seldom takes physic.
A cold needs the cook as much as the doctor.
God cures, and the doctor gets the money.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; if he kills, the earth hides it.
If you have a friend who is a doctor, make your bow and send him to the house of your enemy.
Of doctor and poet, musician and madman, we each have a trace.
A young doctor makes a humpy graveyard.
The presence of the doctor is the beginning of the cure.
Six men give a doctor less to do than one woman.
The superior doctor prevents sickness; The mediocre doctor attends to impending sickness; The inferior doctor treats actual sickness.
If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get sick.
Don't take every ill to the doctor, or every quarrel to the lawyer, or every thirst to the tavern.
God cures, and the doctor gets paid.
A good purpose is like a doctor and evil purpose corrupts.
A single untried popular remedy often throws the scientific doctor into hysterics.
A young doctor makes a full graveyard.
An ignorant doctor is no better than a murderer.
Nature is better than a middling doctor.
A good doctor treats both the patient and the disease.
A man who is his own doctor has a fool for his patient.
Every doctor thinks his pills the best.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away--if you have good aim.
Hussars pray for war, and the doctor for fever.
Every patient is a doctor after his cure.
Go not with every ailment to the doctor, nor with every plaint to lawyer.
The best doctor is to be found in hell.
God is the doctor of the man who quarrels with his master.
Death is the last doctor.
The doctor can come and go, but he who is sick remains so.
The doctor comes to the house where the sun can't reach.
A house that is not seen by the sun, is visited often by the doctor.
A new doctor is a plague on the country.
Don't go to the doctor for every malady, nor to the lawyer for every disagreement, nor to the fountain for every thirst.
Too compassionate the doctor, too inadequate the treatment.
The suffering patient knows more than the expert doctor.
The sick bed makes the doctor.
The doctor has a remedy for everything but poverty.
Don't settle in a place where the doctor has gout.
Where wine appears the doctor disappears.
The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease.
If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; but if he kills, the earth hides it.
Only a fool will make a doctor his heir.
The patient who names a doctor his heir makes a big mistake.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
God cures, and the doctor takes the fee.
There is more to be feared from the doctor than the disease.
God heals, and the doctor takes the fee. (1640)
Shut up Topias the doctor knows better that you ain't dead.
What God has written, a witch doctor can not erase.
Dress the monkey in silk and it is still a monkey.
Do not make the dress before the child is born.
Although the monkey might dress in silk, monkey it still is.
It's dress in a man, bindings in baskets' edge.
Dress up a stick and it'll be a beautiful bride.
Dress up a stick and you get a doll.
A person is asked about his dress not what he has eaten.
Old sheep shouldn't dress in lamb's fashion.
It's not worth undressing a saint to dress another one.
A silk dress doesn't mean clean undergarments.
Honor is determined by your dress.
Take care of your dress from when it's new and your honor from your youth.
Good fortune wears a pretty dress but its underclothes do not bear investigation.
Never dress in mourning before the dead man is in his coffin.
Girl, do not exult in thy wedding dress; see how much trouble lurks behind it.
Do not dress in clothes made of leaves when going to put out a fire.
Wearing a mended dress is better than being naked.
Death is like a dress that, at some point or another, everyone has to wear.
Dignity does not consist in a silk dress.
Love of dress is sure the very curse.
If you dress in gold or silk, you are still the same green grocer.
Eat whatever thou likest, but dress as others do.
If you put a silk dress on a goat, he is a goat still.
Dress up a stick and it does not appear to be a stick.
A long dress makes a lady.
Dress up a country bumpkin and he looks like a baron.
Eat to please thyself, but dress to please others.
Dress up once a year, and dress up in cloth.
You are ushered in according to your dress; shown out according to your brains.
You dance better with a full belly than with a new dress.
Dress makes the man.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.
The classic formula for success is Dress British, Think Yiddish.
It's not worth undressing a saint to dress another one.
Abroad we judge the dress; at home we judge the man.
Fine words dress ill deeds.
Be aware of the idiot, for he is like an old dress.
When drinking water, think about the source.
There is never wanting an excuse for drinking.
The taste of cold water after drinking, is a pleasure that the teetotaler will never know.
Good eating deserves good drinking.
Without eating and drinking the hero is no good.
To good eating belongs good drinking.
He who is always drinking and stuffing will in time become a ragamuffin.
The three faults of drinking are: a sorrowful morning, a dirty coat, and an empty pocket.
Choose your company before you go drinking.
Thirst comes from drinking.
Eating teaches drinking.
A small but excellent party, said the man, he was drinking alone.
Work in micalassu: eating, drinking and strolling.
The trade of thick-headed Michael: eating, drinking, and idling.
Listening to a liar is like drinking warm water.
Drinking fake ale is better then drinking water.
Less good than they say for the sons of men is the drinking oft of ale: for the more they drink, the less can they think and keep a watch o'er their wits.
To stop drinking, study a drunkard when you are sober.
The noise produced by frogs in the well can't stop an elephant from drinking.
Death rides with the drinking driver.
Drinking a little too much is drinking a great deal too much.
Eating and drinking holds body and soul together.
Eating and drinking Shouldn't keep us from thinking.
If you have a good cellar at home don't go drinking at the tavern.
God preserve you from one who eats without drinking.
He who likes drinking is always talking of wine.
Dicing, drabbing and drinking bring men to destruction.
They talk of my drinking but never my thirst.
Who eats without drinking, will never feel full.
Take care of the manger and water the animals at the drinking trough.
The one who burns his mouth for drinking milk too hot, eats even yogurt carefully.
What's drinking? / A mere pause from thinking. (Lord Byron)
Eating and drinking wants but a beginning.
Dogs understand each other by their barking, and men by their words.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
When two dogs fight over a bone, a third one carries it away.
In the village without dogs the farmers walk without sticks.
The gypsy church was made of pork and the dogs ate it.
Only thin dogs become wild.
Dogs don't love people, they love the place where they are fed.
There are more chains than mad dogs.
A fence lasts three years, a dog lasts three fences, a horse three dogs, and a man three horses.
It's hard to make a choice between two blind dogs.
Only mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noonday sun.
Theologians, dogs, and singers always disagree.
Many dogs kill a hare, no matter how many turns it makes.
He who goes to bed with dogs will get up with fleas.
Two dogs seldom agree over one bone.
Those who sleep with dogs gets up with fleas.
Where there is a bone, there are dogs.
He who follows the crow will be led the the corpses of dogs.
The barking of dogs does not hurt the clouds.
The barking of the dogs will not disturb the clouds.
He who rides a camel should not be afraid of dogs.
If you listen to dogs barking, you'll go deaf and never learn much.
He who associates with dogs learns to pant.
Sheep-killing dogs are vicious.
Dogs delight to bark and bite for God has made them so.
An old lion will be mocked by the dogs.
Barking dogs don't bite.
Two dogs over one bone seldom agree.
Let people take and dogs bark.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
If you lie down with dogs you'll rise with fleas.
Beware of silent dogs and still waters.
Be careful for deep water and dogs that do not bark.
In a place without dogs they teach the cats to bark.
Stones or bread, one must have something in hand for the dogs.
He who has loaves has dogs.
More unlucky than dogs in church.
He who gives bread to others' dogs is often barked at by his own.
Dogs bark at hose they don't know.
The moon does not heed the baying of dogs.
Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
Two dogs fight for a bone and a third runs away with it.
Many dogs, rabbit's death.
He who wants to talk with the dogs must learn to bark.
Dogs cannot make dreams come true, people must do that.
Wherever there are bones, there are dogs.
Women and cats in the house, men and dogs in the street.
Dogs bark and cows chew grass.
When storms roll in, dogs make beds.
Money from poor men and balls from dogs, impossible to hide.
Barking dogs don't catch hares.
Dogs bark and oxen graze.
They agree like cats and dogs.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Dead dogs don't bite.
Dogs have teeth in all countries.
Don't snap your fingers at the dogs before you are out of the village.
Where's no top dogs, underdogs will be seen as one.
Unable to keep yourself, you are keeping dogs.
Dogs will red swine.
The moon is not shamed by the barking of dogs.
Brides and mothers-in-law are like dogs and monkeys.
Dogs are dogs, but cats are people.
Even two friendly dogs cannot share a single bone.
If you choose to lie down with dogs, you must be prepared to wake up with fleas.
Quarreling dogs come halting home.
Lie down with dogs, wake up with fleas.
In every country dogs bite.
Quarrelsome dogs get dirty coats.
Raining cats and dogs.
The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
Young dogs have sharp teeth.
Own kin are the worst friends, said the fox, when he saw the foxy dogs after him.
While the dogs yelp, the hare flies to the wood.
Dogs that bark much don't bite.
Quiet dogs and still water are dangerous.
The dogs bite the last.
Dead dogs don't bite.
He who goes to bed with dogs, will wake up with fleas.
Nobles and dogs leave the door open.
Timid dogs bark most.
While two dogs are fighting for a bone, a third runs away with it.
Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas.
He who gossips and he who listens to it deserve to be thrown to the dogs.
A late repentance is a dogs idea.
A dogs broken bone will soon be healed.
Barking of dogs cannot be heard in heaven.
What the sober man has in his heart, the drunkard has on his lips.
The innkeeper loves a drunkard, but not for a son-in-law.
A child, a drunkard and a fool tell the truth.
The drunkard thinks of only one thing and the barman of something else.
Even the smallest drop is appreciated by the drunkard.
To stop drinking, study a drunkard when you are sober.
A red-nosed man may not be a drunkard, but he will always be called one.
A man is called a drunkard when he misbehaves, not when he drinks.
You can always tell a drunkard by his actions.
The wise drunkard is a sober fool.
The drunkard always tells the truth.
The innkeeper loves the drunkard, but not for a son-in-law.
What the sober man keeps in his heart, is on the tongue of the drunkard.
For a drunkard the sea only reaches his knees.
The drunkard and the glutton come to poverty, and drowsiness clothes a man with rags.
Once a drunkard always a drunkard.
Once a drunkard always a drunkard.
A drunkard is like a whisky bottle only neck and belly but no head.
A drunkard at prayer is regarded as an idol worshipper.
Work is twice done by the man in a hurry.
If you've done good, stay silent; if good has been done to you, share to others.
A woman's work is never done.
After all is said and done, more is said than done.
Beware of the man to whom you have done a good turn.
No matter how many house chores you complete, there are always more to be done.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
He who has done evil, expects evil.
The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it.
The sooner begun, the sooner done.
Something done at the wrong time should be regarded as not done.
To begin is to be half done.
Never forget benefits done you, regardless how small.
Little is done where many command.
Life is short, but there's a lot to be done.
Conscience is what tells you not to do what you have just done.
There is a great distance between said and done.
A good beginning is half the work done.
Who has not done any evil act, his or her heart may be found right.
Done in by his own trade like a water merchant in the rain.
Whatever man had done, man may do.
You should have done it on the wedding night, you fool.
It is ill done to chain a dragon for roasting your meat.
Not even the lord of light can turn back time, or undo what has been done.
What is done under the four moons need never be recalled nor regretted.
If you want a thing done well, do it yourself.
When the deal is done, discuss it no more; it is difficult to collect dispersed water.
Some people want to be praised for the rest of their lives for what they have done well for one day.
Salt preserves meat, but what can be done with salt if it is bad.
What my heart desired didn't happen; what God wanted was really done.
If you want a thing well done, do it yourself. (1616)
Do as you would be done by.
What you do yourself is well done.
When every one minds his own business the work is done.
Great things are done more through courage than through wisdom.
Could everything be done twice, everything would be done better.
A woman's work is never done.
More is done with words than with hands.
Nothing should be done in a hurry except catching fleas.
Self-done, is soon done.
There are three things that have to be done quickly: burying the dead, opening the door for a stranger, and fixing your daughter's wedding.
Give a hint to the man of sense, and consider the thing done.
Give orders, and do no more, and nothing will be done.
Not much can be done when everyone is giving orders.
If you give orders and leave, the work won't get done.
If the young man knew, if the old man could, there is nothing but would be done.
Who has never done thinking never begins doing.
A thing done has a head.
He has done like the Perugian who, when his head was broken, ran home for his helmet.
If you would have your work ill done, pay beforehand.
Nothing is ever well done in a hurry, except flying from the plague or from quarrels, and catching fleas.
Wait time and place to take your revenge, for it is never well done in a hurry.
What is done cannot be undone.
When a thing is done, advice comes too late.
What may be done at any time will be done at no time.
A work ill done must be twice done.
Man noh done cross riva, noh fi cuss alligator long mout long.
Doing that which has been done to us is not a sin.
Who has done evil will answer for evil.
You can't trust that a job will be done properly unless you do it yourself.
If your buttocks burn, you know you have done wrong.
A good start is half the job done.
That's quickly done which is long repented.
one ill behaviour may cause others to forget the kindness we've done.
A tale is soon told; a deed is not soon done.
Every one is wise when the mischief is done.
A man's work is from sun to sun, but a mother's work is never done.
Dancing the drum will be done where the drum is.
You sometimes forget the harm that was done to you, but never the harm you have done to others.
Young people talk of what they are doing; old people of what they have done; and fools of what they have a mind to do.
Pay beforehand if you would have your work poorly done.
Could everything be done twice it would be done better.
Easier said than done.
The harm done by an elephant is like that done by a storm, or by the government.
Hurry-hurry never done.
A fool admires himself most when he has done foolish things.
What is not urgent must be done quickly in order to take care of the urgent things calmly.
Better do it than wish it done.
Defer not till to-morrow what may be done to-day.
People can be done without but a lot of us need a friend.
Be resolved and the thing is done.
If you have never done anything evil, you should not be worrying about devils knocking at your door.
The best preparation for tomorrow is to make sure today's work is superbly done.
If you haven't done anything evil then you shouldn't be worried about devils knocking on your door.
Work well done makes pleasure more fun.
Getting things done is largely a matter of getting things started.
Let justice be done though the heavens fall.
Deed done is well begun.
Yesterday's drunkenness will not quench today's thirst.
Drunkenness does not produce faults; it discovers them.
Drunkenness and anger speak truthfully.
Drunkenness and anger, 'tis said tell the truth.
Thirst is the end of drinking and sorrow is the end of drunkenness.
First goblet and then drunkenness.
If the master gets drunk it is an honorable drunkenness; if the servant does it is evidence of his mean disposition.
There is no coat big enough to hide both poverty and drunkenness.
There's no harm in wine, it's drunkenness that is at fault.
Wine is one thing, drunkenness another.
Drunkenness makes some men fools, some beasts, and some devils.
Mad drunkenness discloses every secret.
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
Wine is given to bring mirth not drunkenness.
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
Little profit comes from constant drunkenness.
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
The vine brings forth three grapes: the first of pleasure, the second of drunkenness, the third of sorrow.
Expect trust from a dog but not from a woman.
A dog will always be a dog, even if he is raised by lions.
Wake not a sleeping dog.
Feed a dog to bark at you.
Judge not the dog by its hair.
There is a dog in the well.
The dog barks, the caravan passes.
The dog barks, the pig eats.
Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand.
A dog which refuses a bone is not alive.
That's where the dog is buried.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
Dog that barks doesn't bite.
Dog does not eat dog.
A hyena intrudes through a gap a dog opened.
As the crow is made for stewing the dog is made for kicking.
The stick that breaks the window does not kill a dog.
The dog that digs deepest finds the bones.
If you have decided to eat a dog, eat a fat one.
If you must be a servant, serve the rich; if you must be a dog, let it be a temple dog.
The barking dog gives you no power -- it gives you fear.
Once a man has been bitten by a lion, he buys a dog.
A dog that barks all the time gets little attention.
A dog cannot carry its puppies on its back.
When the poor man sets a trap only his dog gets caught.
Dog has to have its stomach full.
To tell the dog to catch, and the rabbit to run.
I will not bite any dog,” says the shepherd's dog, "for I must save my teeth for the wolf.
A fence lasts three years, a dog lasts three fences, a horse three dogs, and a man three horses.
You can kill a dog more way than by choking it with butter.
For his master the dog is a lion.
Beware a rickety wall, a savage dog, and a quarrelsome person.
A dog by your side is better than a brother miles away.
All bite the bitten dog.
A dog always bites under the knee.
A dog will not make himself look like a horse just by cutting off his tail.
The scalded dog fears cold water.
He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.
There is no dog, be he ever so wicked, but wags his tail.
Behind the dog it is "dog,” in front of it, it's "mister dog.”.
When a dog has money, he buys cheese.
To a dog a bone has more value than a pearl.
The dog will always attack the one with torn trousers.
There is no ivory in the mouth of a dog.
If you shake a dog, you shake his owner.
He is as good a Catholic as Duke Alva's dog; who ate flesh in Lent.
A dog on the hay: will neither eat it himself, nor let others eat it.
He that sleeps with a dog, should bear its fleas.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
A white dog does not bite another white dog.
You can't kill a dog just to save a cat's tail.
The barking of a dog does not disturb the man on a camel.
If you have to drag a dog to the hunt, neither he nor his hunting is any good.
The dog that trots about finds a bone.
Don't kick a sleeping dog.
By all means make friends with the dog, but do not lay aside the stick.
A dog on the run is safely kicked.
A garden without a fence is like a dog without a tail.
To the dog who has money, men say: my lord dog.
Every dog thinks of his own fleas as gazelles.
Even a weak lion is not bitten by a dog.
The more hair a dog has, the more fleas he will have.
Never throw the cat at the dog.
The dog says: "master, my life is far too good, hurt me in the tail.”.
It is the wandering dog that finds the old bone.
When all men say you are a dog, it is time to bark.
If the tail of the dog can save me, I don't care about its stench.
A hungry dog will eat his own excrement.
Stroke your dog and he will steal eggs.
Don't ask a dog to judge between a pillar and a tree.
None so keen at the hunting of wolves as the dog with wolf blood.
Put no faith in a drunkard's prophecy, another man's dog, or the weather at any season.
You can't teach an old dog how to gnaw a bone.
If you turn into a dog, be sure to choose a rich family.
The dog called "Sorrow," without eating, will be fat in every house.
If a man be great, even his dog will wear a proud look.
He who is dependant on others must make friends with the dog.
Before you beat the dog, find out the name of his master.
Corner a dog in a dead-end street and it will turn and bite.
If the dog leads the man, the man is blind. If the man leads the dog, the man is married.
My dog slaps you with his tail and bites you with his teeth.
The wolf and the dog agree about the goat - which together they eat.
If the master gnaws bones, what will he give the dog?
A river is not contaminated by having a dog drink from it.
The yellow dog is brother to the wolf.
As the dog said, ‘If I fall down for you and you fall down for me, it is playing.'
A mad dog bites anything except itself.
A tailless dog cannot express his joy.
Stroke the dog and he will mark you with his dirty paws.
You cannot hunt with a tied dog.
A donkey always says thank you with a kick.
A donkey is a donkey though it may carry the Sultan's treasure.
He who took the donkey up to the roof should bring it down.
He's looking for the donkey while sitting on it.
When they gave the donkey flowers to smell, he ate them.
You ask the donkey when's Wednesday?
He has fallen off the donkey, but has found a date.
Never stand in front of a judge or behind a donkey.
Walking slowly, even the donkey will reach Lhasa.
Fear doesn't travel by donkey.
He who couldn't overcome the donkey took on the saddle.
Better half a donkey than half a camel.
They couldn't beat the donkey so they beat the saddle.
We let him in; but then he brought his donkey along, too.
Catch the halter rope and it will lead you to the donkey.
If you find the residents of a place worshipping a donkey, bring the beast some grass.
You can't feed your donkey only when you need to ride it.
A drunken donkey will not remember the monkeys bite.
Same donkey, different saddle.
Without a green switch the ox and the donkey won't obey.
A donkey has two friends: his two hind legs.
Don't stop a donkey that isn't yours.
To the donkey thorns taste better than hay.
My donkey is dead; let no more grass grow.
Comfortable is he who doesn't have a donkey - Doesn't know of its straw and barley.
If old age was the same as wisdom, any old donkey would be a celebrated Justice.
The ox saying ‘horned' to the donkey.
The donkey won't drink if he can't see water.
Better a living donkey than a dead doctor.
It is better to ride a donkey that carries you than a horse that throws you.
A donkey that carries me is worth more than a horse that kicks me.
He disappeared like a grey donkey in the fog.
Better a healthy donkey than a consumptive philosopher.
Its better to drive four horses than a donkey.
The donkey sweats so the horse can be decorated with lace.
No mek one donkey choke you.
In the place a donkey dies, fur remains.
If you urge the donkey on, you'll arrive late, if you let the donkey amble, you'll arrive early.
There's no making a donkey drink against his will.
The communal donkey gets the heaviest burden.
A donkey decked in gold is better than an over-laden horse.
He buys well who is not called a donkey.
Better a donkey that tarries than one that won't carry its load.
On your own donkey it is quicker than on someone else's racehorse.
We let him in, he brought his donkey along.
In Morocco never be surprised. If you see a donkey flying, just say Allah is capable of anything.
If your motive is good, a farting donkey won't harm you.
An Aleppine can sell even a dried donkey skin.
Gratitude of a donkey is a kick.
Looking for a donkey on its very back.
Like neither a donkey nor a horse.
It's the same donkey, but with a new saddle.
Better a donkey that carries me than a horse that throws me.
Talk the hind legs off a donkey.
More enduring than a donkey.
Don't send an old man to buy a donkey, nor a young man to woo a wife.
We were silenced by our patience, he entered with his donkey.
There are three things from which no good can be got without a beating: a walnut-tree, a donkey, and a shrew.
A donkey that carries a lot of books is not necessarily learned.
A donkey in saxony is a professor in rome.
The world would not make a racehorse of a donkey.
The Donkey, though it may go to the Holy Land, will still come back a donkey.
If there is no horse, a donkey will do as well.
What does a donkey know about the life of a nightingale?
A grunting donkey is nothing to be ashamed of.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod, and the horse with a whip and spurs.
Put a heavy load on an old donkey.
With two bits worth of a donkey you can earn more than with a mule.
Don't prod the donkey while you're getting on.
Better to be born a limpet in the sea, than a load bearing donkey.
A worthy man is still worthy even penniless, a donkey is a donkey even if he is finely saddled.
The first drink makes you a frisky gazelle, the second an impetuous zebra, the third a roaring lion, and with the fourth you become a silly donkey.
The account of the donkey is different from that of the donkey-man.
When God wants to please a poor man, He lets him lose his donkey and then helps him find it again.
I would rather have a donkey that can carry me than a horse that throws me.
You seek wool from a donkey!
Would you shear a donkey for wool!
He will embark in litigation, even if a donkey has bitten his dog.
If you cannot drive an ox, drive a donkey.
A donkey which goes to grow horns returns with its ears cut off.
To carry his load without resting, not to be bothered by heat or cold and always be content these three things we can learn from a donkey.
It's my donkey and I can tie it where I please.
Every donkey has its own saddle.
Not able to take revenge on the donkey, take it out on the saddle.
A donkey is but a donkey though laden with gold.
A starving donkey does not count the blows.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
An open door may tempt a saint.
Lock your door rather than suspect your neighbor.
The words of the elders do not lock all the doors, they leave the right door open.
One door is shut, but a thousand are open.
When the door is closed, you must learn to slide across the crack of the sill.
At death's door a man will beg for the fever.
The smaller the cabin the wider the door.
Never bolt your door with a boiled carrot.
Death is a camel that lies down at every door.
A beggar himself, can he afford to have one asking for alms at his door?
When you have three daughters, you sleep with the door open.
A creaking door hangs long on its hinges.
Who stands by the door of his house is not yet gone away.
When in someone else's home leave your defects at the door.
Kicking in an open door.
When hunger comes through the door, love jumps out the window.
Believe the liar up to the door of his house and no further than that.
Do not treat your loved one like a swinging door: you are fond of it but you push it back and forth.
You can lock your door from a thief, but not from a damned liar.
We celebrated at the wax door, and all the time the honeycomb was empty within.
The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door but live in different cells.
Silence is the door of consent.
The creaking of the door deprives me of no sleep.
The mouth is the door of evil.
Teachers open the door. You enter by yourself.
If you want to keep camels, have a big enough door.
I'm talking to the door, but I want the walls to hear me.
The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door.
Sweep the dirt from in front of your own door, and don't worry about your neighbour's.
Don't close the barn door after the horse runs away.
Sweep before your own door before you sweep before others.
Close the door from which the wind blows and relax.
'tis one beggar's woe, to see another by the door go.
When fortune knocks, open the door.
Don't carry your head too high, the door is low.
Joy and sorrow are next door neighbors.
It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted.
God's help is nearer than the door.
There are three things that have to be done quickly: burying the dead, opening the door for a stranger, and fixing your daughter's wedding.
Beware of the door with too many keys.
The last comer shuts the door.
The golden key opens every door.
No one likes justice brought home to his own door.
If every man would sweep before his own door, the city would soon be clean.
He must stoop that has a low door.
One door never shuts but another opens.
The back door robbeth the house.
When you open a door, don't forget to close it. Treat your mouth accordingly.
Once you have locked your door you are the emperor in your own domain.
A creaking door hangs longest.
If God closes one door, he opens a thousand others.
It is an unthinking man who achieves prosperity, and then finds with time, that his body can no longer pass through the door.
An oven whose door does not shut does not bake its loaves.
Sweep before your own door first before you sweep before the doorsteps of your neighbors.
It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted.
It's too late to close the stable door after the horse has escaped.
A slattern woman hold open the door to hell.
A great sin can enter by a small door.
His door already has the hard part of the journey behind him.
Money talks all the way to heaven's door.
Close the door and beat the dog.
Falling with the door into the house.
He who is outside his door already has the hard part of his journey behind him.
Fortune does not stand waiting at any one's door.
He who would catch a rogue must watch behind the door.
Sweep in front of your own door before you look after your neighbor's.
Where one door is shut another opens.
A postern door makes a thief.
As soon as one goes out the window, another comes in the door.
Unless you call out, who will open the door?
The pot of water falls from your head when you have just reached the door of your homestead.
Where one door closes, another one opens.
The place of an uninvited guest is behind the door.
Bolted windows with the door ajar.
Do not spread your corn to dry at an enemy's door.
The charitable give out the door and God puts it back through the window.
The back of one door is the face of another.
De sea en' get nuh back door.
Earth is like a prison: we all go in through the same door, but we stay in different cells.
The ear is only a door.
Every door with its own key.
While keeping a tiger from the front door, the wolf comes in at the back.
Whoever keeps his door locked all the time longs for it to be broken down.
The man whose conscience is clear will never fear a knock on the door at midnight.
A man need never revenge himself; the body of his enemy will be brought to his own door.
If you have never done anything evil, you should not be worrying about devils knocking at your door.
The door to virtue is heavy and hard to open.
The best kind of closed door is the one you can leave unlocked.
Envy can breed swans from bad duck eggs.
If it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it's probably a duck.
The son of a duck is a floater.
It's as hard to see a woman crying as it is to see a barefooted duck.
If the world is flooded, it will be easy for the duck.
A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in.
Ya mout does run like a duck pouch.
Better your own cod than another's duck.
If you see what the ducks eat then you eat no more duck.
A duck won't bite you.
A wise duck takes care of its bill.
To threaten the brave with death is like promising water to a duck.
A duck will not always dabble in the same gutter.
If it walks like a duck, quacks like a duck, looks like a duck, it must be a duck.
Eat vegetables and fear no creditors, rather than eat duck and hide.
He who gives a duck, expects a goose.
Even though he misses his duck, he will not miss his lake.
The voice of the duck is the glory of the marshes.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
Give the Goddess her due, even when her due is grief.
The old should be treated with due respect. Children should be treated with gentleness.
Give every man his due.
If you see an animal running in the early morning know that it is running away from something more scarily than the due.
Give the devil his due.
Give credit where credit is due.
Give the devil his due.
Don't pour away your water due to a mirage.
Give credit where credit is due.
Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do so.
Due to the presence of fools wise people stand out.
A diamond doesn't lose its value due to lack of admiration.
Honour to whom honour is due.
Crotch seam rivet in original Levi's dropped due to pain from standing near fires.
Give credit where credit is due.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
Give the devil his due.
A sluggard takes an hundred steps because he would not take one in due time.
A stitch in due time saves nine.
He who throws a stone at his relatives will never prosper, give the kinsman his due.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The weed of arrogance grows on a dunghill.
Every cock crows best on his own dunghill.
Every cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
Every cock will crow upon his own dunghill.
The cock is bold on his own dunghill.
Fortune is round; it makes one a king, another a dunghill.
Every cock crows on his own dunghill.
Arrogance is a weed that grows mostly on a dunghill.
The cock is a lord on his own dunghill.
The diamond fallen into the dunghill is not the less precious for it.
Every cock is master upon his own dunghill.
The dunghill grows by straws thrown upon it.
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
There is never a great dunghill at a sportsman's door.
The weed of arrogance grows on a dunghill.
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
The cock is king on his own dunghill.
A rooster is always bold on its own dunghill .
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
Although he who walks behind an elephant may feel very secure, he is likely to get splattered with elephant dung.
If someone transports dung and does not eat it, it should not be concluded that he is an honest person.
A fruit tree that grows in a dung heap will certainly blossom.
Why drive away fowls from the dung you do not eat yourself?.
When kitchen dresser tumble dung, maaga dog laugh.
Every cock is proud on his own dung hill.
Cow dung can't be gathered where no cow has been.
A particle of goat dung cannot be eaten by a large gourd.
Learning Zen is a phenomenon of gold and dung. Before you understand it, it's like gold; after you understand it, it's like dung.
Wealth is but dung, useful only when spread about.
A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed.
Don't mistake chicken dung for an egg.
An elephant has enormous dung -- don't try to defecate like an elephant. Don't try to wipe someone else's ass if yours is unwiped.
As fair greits the bairn that is dung after noon, as he that is dung before noon.
He is fairest dung when his own wand dings him.
It is a fair feild where all are dung down.
Life is a dung pie from which you take a bite every day.
Dung is no saint, but where it falls it works miracles.
Handsome cats and fat dung heaps are the sign of a good farmer.
Whoever drinks on credit gets drunk more quickly.
It is easier to take a couple of drinks than to refuse them.
The lazy ox drinks dirty water.
One who drinks from the nile must return.
The sheep drinks but it's the goat that gets drunk.
Any visitor to the country who drinks from the river bengo will never want to leave.
What a cow eats a calf drinks.
At the first cup man drinks wine, at the second wine drinks wine, at the third wine drinks man.
When the wine is free even the judge drinks it.
Even the hen looks toward heaven when she drinks.
It's all right to drink like a fish if you drink what a fish drinks.
He who only drinks water does not get drunk.
The more the mother-in-law drinks the more friendly is her greeting.
He who eats and drinks with the rich leaves the table hungry.
He who drinks, dies; he who does not drink, dies as well.
He preaches water and drinks wine.
When the hyena drinks, the dog can only look on.
Everyone drinks with their mouth.
No one drinks medicine on behalf of a sick person.
At a little fountain one drinks at one's ease.
Who drinks till bottom, lives without mind.
He who drinks on credit, gets drunk twice.
With the first glass a man drinks wine, with the second glass the wine drinks the wine, with the third glass the wine drinks the man.
The cow drinks water and it turns to milk; the snake drinks water and it turns to poison.
A fool in a hurry drinks tea with a fork.
A hasty man drinks his tea with a fork.
Drinks down your sorrow, but your sorrow returns the morning after.
A man is called a drunkard when he misbehaves, not when he drinks.
He who drinks wine without libation is a traitor to the gods.
He who drinks and walks away lives to drink another day.
A goose drinks as much as a gander.
When one goose drinks, all drink.
He drinks like a fish.
He drinks like a brushmaker.
The more one drinks, the more one may.
The perch has a good time, it drinks when it wants to.
Evening song with drinks: morning song with coughs.
Double drinks are good for drouth.
The crocodile drinks from the same river as the centipede.
From the well of envy, only a fool drinks the water.
Who drinks at night, buys himself death, who drinks in bed, buys himself a coffin.
The timid ox drinks muddy water.
The rabbi drinks the wine and asks the others to be happy.
The mountaineer's ass carries wine and drinks water.
He that borrows and bigs; makes feasts and thigs; drinks and is not.
When father drinks beer the children are hungry.
Malice itself drinks the largest part of its own poison. [Malitia ipsa maximam partem veneni sui bibit].
If you beat my drum, I will blow your whistle.
Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum.
The noisiest drum has nothing but air inside.
The Drum is large but empty.
If you sell a drum in your own village, you get the money and keep the sound.
What makes the drum pleasing is the song.
If thine enemy wrong thee, buy each of his children a drum.
A fool is like the big drum that beats fast but does not realize its hollowness.
My drum doesn't do what I want it to.
Got with the fife, spent with the drum.
Feel like gumbeh drum widout a goat-skin.
Dancing the drum will be done where the drum is.
If the rhythm of the drum beat changes, the dance step must adapt.
You do not beat a drum with one finger.
Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum.
Who made the drum knows best what is inside.
Who built the drum knows best what is inside.
A drum that is sounded loudly will soon split.
Beat the drum inside the house to spare the neighbors.
When the big drum is sounded the small drums keep silence.
That which is about to die doesn't hear the drum beating.
He who cannot dance will say, The drum is bad!
The noisiest drum has nothing in it but air.
You must have good luck to catch hares with a drum.
Sparrows cannot be caught by beating a drum.
If a drum is not made, it is the fault of the master; but if the drum is made and is not beaten, then that is the fault of the boys.
The love of a soldier doesn't last long; when the drum rolls; Good bye, dear lady.
Hares are not caught by the sound of the drum.
To one who understands, a mosquito is a lute, to one who does not understand, a drum and zurna are little.
The drum sounds when the hawk appears wit ha rabbit.
To marry one is a duty; twice a folly; thrice is madness.
It is the duty of children to wait on elders, and not the elders on children.
Duty before devotion.
To do one's duty is to eat the prized fruit of honor.
To marry once is a duty, twice a folly, and three times - madness.
The first duty of a soldier is obedience.
To serve our elders is a duty, our equals it is polite, but serving the young is humiliating.
He is not to blame who does his duty.
To die in the line of duty is the hope of every klingon.
Duty knows no family.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
Duty is heavy as a mountain but
Death is lighter than a feather.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
Respect for one's parents is the highest duty of civil life.
The hen knows that dawn has arrived but it leaves the duty of crowing to the cock.
A neglected duty may returns tomorrow with seven others at its back.
What isn't your duty isn't your business.
Never step over one duty to perform another.
It is the duty of friends mutually to correct each other.
Duty is weightier than a mountain, while death is lighter than a feather.
When the eye sees you then your bound to go for duty.
There is one moral duty that moralists underrate almost criminally - the duty to enjoy god's world.
A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home.
Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire.
Truth and folly dwell in the wine-cask.
Day and night cannot dwell together.
Do not dwell in a city whose governor is a physician.
It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house.
The rebellious dwell in a dry land.
If you are poor, though you dwell in the busy marketplace, no one will inquire about you; if you are rich, though you dwell in the heart of the mountains, you will have distant relatives.
Do not dwell in a city where a horse does not neigh nor a dog bark.
They cease to be friends who dwell afar off.
Love and dignity do not dwell together.
Talent and poverty, wealth and stupidity generally dwell together.
Speak well of the highlands, but dwell in the laigh.
Pride and grace dwell never in ae place.
You can't drive straight on a twisting lane.
Do not waste your time looking for soft ground to drive your spade in.
Why drive away fowls from the dung you do not eat yourself?.
Laughter cannot bring back what anger has driven away.
An army is driven back by courage and not by insults, however many.
The cats that drive away mice are as food as those that catch them.
Windmills are not driven by bellows.
Devils must be driven out with devils.
Left from there, driven from here.
He that by the plough would thrive, Himself must either hold or drive.
The sound of the bell does not drive away rooks.
An ox remains an ox, even if driven to Vienna.
Its better to drive four horses than a donkey.
Smoke, stench, and a troublesome wife are what drive men from home.
One man driven by distress does as much as thirty.
It takes a heap of licks to drive a nail in the dark.
Three things drive a man outdoors; smoke, a leaking roof and a scolding wife.
Growl not at guests, nor drive them from the gate but show thyself gentle to the poor.
The one who hasn't strength to pound yams pretends to drive away flies from the yams.
You can drive sixty miles a minute, but there is no future in it.
A woman can't drive her husband, but she can lead him.
Drive your business or it will drive you.
You cannot drive a windmill with a pair of bellows.
Ye may drive the deil into a wife, but ye'll ne'er ding him oot o' her.
Drive your business, do not let it drive you.
Drive not too many ploughs at once, some will make foul work.
Evil must be driven out by evil.
It is not for the good of the cow when she is driven in a carriage.
Drive not away what never came near you.
Drive the nail that will go.
Drive a rat into a corner, and he'll jump at you.
It is easy to drive with your own whip and another's horse.
If a dog is driven by a stick after a hare, he will not catch it.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod, and the horse with a whip and spurs.
You can't drive donkeys without a stick, nor horses without spurs.
Love entered and you didn't realize it: you wanted to drive it out but you couldn't.
A joke driven too far brings home hate.
Drive the horse with oats, not with curses and oaths.
Smoke, floods, and a troublesome wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life.
Don't drive a Binya into the woods if he has found his way to your house.
If you cannot drive an ox, drive a donkey.
Many can drive an ox; few can plough.
A nail is driven out by another nail; habit is overcome by habit.
You a lady, I a lady who is to drive out the sow?
Musicians seldom drive carriages.
If you have driven a vehicle in Moratumulla, you can drive in any road in Sri Lanka.
A stick at the neighbours cannot drive out a leopard at your home.
You cannot drive a windmill with a pair of bellows.
A fly can drive away horses.
Ye drive a Snail to Rome.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod.
Drive your business, don't let it drive you.
You a lady, I a lady who is to drive out the sow?
Drop by drop would make a lake.
Fear to let fall a drop, will always make you spill a lot.
A drop of wisdom is better than a sea of gold.
Drop after drop, there will be a sea.
Man's life is like a drop of dew on a lea£.
With poison, one drop is enough.
Until the snake is dead, do not drop the stick.
Because of a drop of blue dye,a whole pot of milk is contaminated.
Fear to let spill a drop and you will spill a lot.
While the butchers were arguing, the cow dropped dead.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
A pot of milk is ruined by a drop of poison.
A little and a little, collected together, becomes a great deal; the heap in the barn consists of single grains, and drop and rop makes an inundation.
When the drop (drink) is inside, the sense is outside.
A barrel that contains the wine will retain the drop in its staves.
A drop of water breaks a stone.
Even if gypsy children are dropped from the sky.
Even the smallest drop is appreciated by the drunkard.
A noh siame diay leaf drop a river bottom it rotten.
More flies are taken with a drop of honey than a tun of vinegar.
A drop from every mug makes for a house for the barmaid.
All the cones drop on poor makar.
Drop by drop, it will make a pond.
Don't point your finger into a graveyard or it will drop off.
De berry don' drop too far from de tree.
Never drop the bone to catch the shadow.
The responsibility of power is like holding an egg. Grasp it too tightly and it will drip through your fingers; hold it too loosely and it will drop and break.
A drop of sweat spent in a drill is a drop of blood saved in a battle.
The bird, which flaps its wings too much, will drop its feathers.
Never drop the friends you made on the way up. You may need them on the way down.
Crotch seam rivet in original Levi's dropped due to pain from standing near fires.
God gives all birds their food but does not drop it into their nests.
More flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
A drop of honey catches more flies than a hogshead of vinegar.
Better a drop of wisdom than an ocean of gold.
A drop of rain makes no impression on a hard stone.
Drop by drop wears away the stone.
Drop the jest when it is most amusing.
If it does not trickle, it will drop.
Let the wormy of it drop off.
Drop by drop the lake is drained.
Drop by drop fills the tub.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
'tis sweet at certain times to drop the sage.
A drop hollows out a stone.
Drop by drop the lake is formed.
There wasn't a sound to be heard. You could have heard a pin drop.
The stone is hard and the drop is small, but a hole is made by the constant fall.
A drop of luck is worth a cask of wisdom.
Not even a drop is left.
In chatter a river, in understanding but a single drop.
If the sieve is not shaken, his flour will not drop from it.
A drop does not kill, and you won't drown in a bucket.
When prices drop, buy.
Avoiding the drop, he found himself under the gutter.
Who is alive, always drop in...
A halo only needs to drop a few inches to become a noose.
Lift a stone only to drop on your own feet.
Never drop the friends you made on the way up.
A deluge of words and a drop of sense.
When the pear is ripe it will drop.
One drop of poison infects the whole of wine.
When your drunk the old woman tastes like a virgin..
To be drunk every day is also a regular life.
Whoever drinks on credit gets drunk more quickly.
Having drunk the country's water, one should obey the country's laws.
If you want to know who your friends are, lie by the roadside and pretend to be drunk.
Who is always sad, does not even have fun when drunk.
The sheep drinks but it's the goat that gets drunk.
The wine has been poured and must be drunk.
Even the judge was drunk when the wine was free.
He who is drunk from wine can sober up, he who is drunk from wealth cannot.
If three people tell you that you are drunk, you better lie down.
Thought when sober, said when drunk.
He who only drinks water does not get drunk.
If The Priest is used to get drunk, the people do not sober at all.
When three people say you are drunk, go to sleep.
A drunk man's words are a sober man's thoughts.
He that is drunk is gone from home.
If the master gets drunk it is an honorable drunkenness; if the servant does it is evidence of his mean disposition.
Cockroach neber so drunk him walk a fowl yard.
For a drunk, the sea is knee-deep (, and a puddle ear-deep).
Eat until you are half full; drink until you are half drunk.
God take you, pound, drunk out and not yet spun.
When a drunken man meets a mad man, he learns the difference between being merely drunk and being truly mad.
What nectar can be drunk with the ears? Good advice.
Between true friends even water drunk together is sweet enough.
When your companions get drunk and fight, Take up your hat, and wish them good night.
When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk.
A bad man talks about what he has eaten and drunk -- a good man about what he has seen and heard.
With true friends . . . even water drunk together is sweet enough.
He who is not drunk on a sunday is not worth a greeting on monday.
A drunk man will sober up, but a damn fool never.
God blesses a drunk.
The miller is never so drunk that he forgets to take his dues.
Where the best wine grows, the worst is drunk.
The drunk ones will sober up, but the mad ones will not clever up.
When everybody says you are drunk, go to sleep.
Ever drunk, ever dry.
If three people tell you that you are drunk, lie down.
He that killeth a man when he is drunk must be hanged when he is sober.
What is said when the drunk has been thought out beforehand.
He has drunk the juice of the flower of the wild aloe.
If two people say he is drunk, the third one should sleep.
Don't throw a stone into a well from which you have drunk.
Since the wine is drawn it must be drunk.
He who has drunk will drink.
Wine that isn't paid for is drunk twice.
When a rich man falls they say it was an accident; when a poor man falls they say that he was drunk.
The cask full, the mother-in-law drunk.
He who sins when drunk will have to atone for it when sober.
Nothing bears a stronger resemblance to a madman than a man when drunk.
When everyone tells you that you are drunk, go to sleep.
When you in the Midsummer night, drunk, stand up on your boat to pee, you may see your widow-to-be on the shore."
It's surely nice to be engaged and drunk, but it's different to have hangover and marriage.
cockroach nebber so drunk he no crossy fowl-yard.
Let him who sins when drunk be punished when sober.
If three people tell you that you are drunk, you better lie down.
An Irishman is never drunk as long as he can hold onto one blade of grass and not fall off the face of the earth.
First goblet is still full, but you are sodden (or drunk).
Drink the wine, but not drunk by it.
The boy ain't drunk but has slippery shoes.
Only a fool gets drunk from his own bottle.
A handful of couscous is better than Mecca and all its dust.
Sell what you have bought while the dust is still on your shoes.
Even dust amassed will grow into a mountain.
The leopard that covers its black spots with hamaton dust solution will truly be exposed when the rain season comes.
‘what a dust we kick up,' as the fly said to the cart wheel.
The best memory is that which forgets nothing, but injuries. Write kindness in marble and write injuries in the dust.
Small rain lays great dust.
He who blows dust fills his eyes with it.
Softly, don't raise a dust.
Long skirts carry dust, but short skirts carry away souls.
When you fall behind, you eat dust.
A blind man's stroke, which raises a dust from beneath water.
A peck of March dust is worth a king's ransom.
From that dust comes this mud.
An old woman dancing makes a great dust.
Write injuries in dust, But kindnesses in marble.
Dust does not rise because a dog-flea hops.
The hard road turns the traveller into the same dust that he has to swallow.
He that blows in the dust fills his eyes with it.
Dust does not burden him.
Firelight will not let you read fine stories, but it's warm and won't let you see the dust on the floor.
The fly sat upon the axle of the chariot-wheel and said "What a lot of dust I raise!"
Nothing but a handful of dust will fill the eyes of man.
A man comes from dust & in dust he will end.
What is lighter than a feather? Dust. What lighter than dust? Wind. What lighter than the wind? A harlot. What lighter than a harlot? Nothing.
Drink beer, think beer.
I own a cow in heaven, but I cannot drink her milk.
A bellyful is one of meat, drink, or sorrow.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
A drink is shorter than a tale.
Women do not drink liquor, but it disappears when they are present.
Eat and drink with your relatives; do business with strangers.
Pigs in the cold and men in drink make a great noise.
Better to drink the milk than to eat the cow.
The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass.
You can take a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
Those who get to the river early drink the cleanest water.
Do not drink from a well and throw a stone into it.
Do not drink poison to quench a thirst.
First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man.
Ask no favors and people everywhere are affable; if you don't drink, it doesn't matter what price wine is.
A river is not contaminated by having a dog drink from it.
People who drink to drown their sorrows, should be told that sorrow knows how to swim.
Two rams cannot drink from the same bucket at the same time; they will lock horns.
Drink and frankfurters for a dime; kill a man before his time.
If it's wrong to eat the devil, it's wrong to drink his broth.
It's all right to drink like a fish if you drink what a fish drinks.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink.
A little knowledge is dangerous. Drink deep, or taste not the puritan waters.
The person who pours water to other is the last one to drink.
Would you live long, be healthy and fat, drink like a dog and eat like a cat.
Drink upon salad costs the doctor a ducat; drink upon eggs costs him two.
Good as drink is, it ends in thirst.
She would drink the cream and say the cat she had was an old rogue.
When the drop (drink) is inside, the sense is outside.
A drink precedes a story.
You can take a horse to water, but you can not make him drink.
A camel does not drink with a spoon.
Never say, of this water I will not drink, of this bread I will not eat.
In a piranha infested river, monkeys drink water using a straw.
Never say ‘from this water I shall not drink'.
Never say: ‘of this water I will never drink.'
Eat in poland, drink in hungary, sleep in germany, and make love in italy.
Dig a well every day to drink water every day.
You can better drink from a small well with soft water than from the salty sea.
Drink wine and let water go to the mill.
Eat and drink with your relatives, but do business with strangers.
The donkey won't drink if he can't see water.
Drink water like an ox, wine like the king of Spain.
There's no making the ass drink when his is not thirsty.
You cannot make the mule drink when he is not thirsty.
Extol the virtue of water, but drink wine.
He who drinks, dies; he who does not drink, dies as well.
Anyone who urinates in a stream should be warned because any of his relatives may drink from the water.
Mi come here fi drink milk, mi noh come here fi count cow.
A mare who has had a foal will never again drink pure water.
There's no point in whistling at an ox who doesn't want to drink.
Beware the man who does not drink.
No use crying at the market, sell your fur coat and drink the money.
There's no making a donkey drink against his will.
Good drink drives out bad thoughts.
As you brew, so must you drink.
Do not spit into the well that you might need to drink out of.
He who doesn't risk never gets to drink champagne.
Eat until you are half full; drink until you are half drunk.
Do not spit into the well you may have to drink of.
There are two kinds of Chinese: those who give wine and those who drink it.
After stuffing pears within, drink old wine until they swim.
Don't sign a paper without reading it, or drink water without seeing it.
Drink nothing with out seeing it; sign nothing without reading it.
Eat, drink and be merry.
Let the water you cannot drink flow by.
Let water run that you do not intend to drink.
The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives.
Eat drink and be merry.
Stop talking. Drink.
They who drink the water from the Manangareza river always come back to Madagascar.
Less good than they say for the sons of men is the drinking oft of ale: for the more they drink, the less can they think and keep a watch o'er their wits.
Those who arrive to the spring first, drink the purest water.
Always drink up stream from the herd.
The Irish ignore anything they can't drink or punch.
You can take a horse to the pond but you cant make him drink.
You can make a mule cross the river but you cant make him drink the water.
As you tapped it you will drink.
Although dying of thirst, i drink not the water of a stolen fountain.
Drink and sing: the dark night is ahead of us.
When you drink from the stream remember the spring.
Better to drink the weak tea of a friend than the sweet wine of an enemy.
If you see in your wine the reflection of a person not in your range of vision, don't drink it.
God said, God said, "Eat and drink," but He didn't say, "Gorge to the full."
If you want to drink clear water from a well be there first.
You don't have to climb the palm wine tree to drink palm wine.
They who dig the wells never drink from them.
The dying person cannot wait for the shroud to be woven.
Living is not a reward and dying is no crime.
When death is there, dying is over.
Gold is a debt we can repay, but kindness not till our dying day.
A fly does not mind dying in coconut cream.
The man dying to hang himself can always find a noose.
The dying cannot leave their wisdom or experience to their heirs.
The dying man is not saved by medicine.
More kids are dying than old goats.
A dying ear does not feel the medicine.
A dying man discovers the honesty with which he was born.
Although dying of thirst, i drink not the water of a stolen fountain.
You cannot draw white cloth from a dying vat.
To die is to stop living but to stop living is something entirely different than dying.
The brave person regards dying as just going home.
A man who after his dying speech doesn't die, bears the same guilt.
Dying is as natural as living soundly.
Dying men speak true.
You cannot shift an old tree without it dying.
It's hard to scare a person who thinks he will benefit from dying.
It is difficult to scare people who think they will profit from dying.
Dying while young is a boon in old age.
Hope gives strength and courage, and saves an otherwise dying man from his grave.
Ants surround the dying elephant.
If I dealt in candles, the sun wouldn't set; if I dealt in shrouds, people would stop dying.
A strawberry blossom will not sweeten dry bread.
When there's fire, dry and wet burn together.
Ink, if not used, will dry up.
The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass.
When husband and wife live in harmony, they can dry up the ocean without a bucket.
He who gets drenched at dawn has the rest of the day to dry out.
Allah gives dried beans to eat to him who has no teeth left.
The fish, seeing the water has dried up, struggles mightily in the mud.
If a forest catches fire, both the dry and the wet will burn up.
An old woman is always uneasy when dry bones are mentioned in a proverb.
If you refuse to be made straight when you are green, you will not be made straight when you are dry.
A dry bone is never licked.
There is a time to fish and a time to dry nets.
Scandal will rub out like dirt when it is dry.
Put your trust in God, and keep your powder dry.
A drunken man is always dry.
There is no fishing for trout in dry breeches.
The wet branch burns better than the dry stone.
Better droping than dry.
There's no catching trouts with dry breeches.
When a woman knows no more how to answer, she must be dried up.
Morning rain and women's tears dry as fast as each other.
Better dry bread in peacetime than meat in wartime.
In a fire, both green and dry wood burn.
A child does not die because the mother's breasts are dry.
A termite grows up in dry wood, and yet comes to maturity.
The pool has dried up, and the fish is in trouble.
It's pleasant to look on the rain, when one stands dry.
A sea will not dry up, a nation will not get lost.
You can't catch trout with dry breeches.
When you die, your sister's tears will dry as time goes on, your widow's tears will end in another's arms, but your mother will mourn you until the day she dies.
Do not spread your corn to dry at an enemy's door.
The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch.
When yuh see a man fishing in a dry pond don't call he a fool.
The rebellious dwell in a dry land.
Don't try to buy fish in the dry towns.
An Aleppine can sell even a dried donkey skin.
A lazy person with a nephwe does not eat dry rice.
Do me a favour during a rainy season and I shall do the same to you during the dry season.
You won't get much fat from a dry bone.
A dry finger cannot pick up salt.
A river that forgets its source will soon dry out.
Truth is like fire it cannot be hidden under dry leaves.
Dry thunder that tears the sky doesn't make you forget the storm of yesterday.
Every fresh banana leaf should eventually become a dry banana leaf.
The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch.
However hot the sun, it will never dry the sea.
He who wanders along the beach doesn't eat his rice dry.
Even if you rease your clothes in very hot water you still need to dry them.
You can't catch fish on a dry line.
Eat when you are hungry; drink when you are dry.
There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry.
Sorrow is always dry.
Trust god and keep your powder dry.
Eat when you're hungry, and drink when you're dry.
Better a handful of dry dates and content therewith than to own the Gate of Peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
It is folly to drown on dry land.
Dry wood makes a quick fire.
We'll never know the worth of water till the well go dry.
Sweet are the tears that are dried by your loved one.
If I went to sea I should find it dry.
Ever drunk, ever dry.
Buttered bread always falls dry side up.
Dry bread is better with love than a fat capon with fear.
When the well is dry, we know what it's worth.
A sorrowfu' heart's aye dry.
The leech that does not let go even when it is filled, dies on the dry land.
The river may dry up but she keeps her name.
Three things give us hardy strength: sleeping on hairy mattresses, breathing cold air, and eating dry food.
The yew tree exists three hundred years: first green, then dry, then gone.
A dry January means a filled hayloft.
The horns are dry but they keep the house in plenty.
A dry year still produces a harvestable crop.
All the fruit will mature in a warm and dry September.
A wily person does not walk on dry leaves.
Every poor man has a dry throat and wet boots.
It's good to watch the rain from a dry standpoint.
A healthy soul cannot live in a dry body.
We never know the worth of water till the well is dry.
Near the dry, the damp will burn.
Trouts are not caught with dry breeches.
Never spread your corn to dry before the door of a saintly man.
Sow dry and set wet.
Plough wet or dry, and you will not have to kiss your neighbour's breech.
On dry land even brackish water is good.
Every one wishes to bring water to his own mill, and leave his neighbour's dry.
He moistens the lips, but leaves the palate dry.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
For every goose there is a gander.
Sauce for the goose, is sauce for the gander.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
A goose drinks as much as a gander.
The goose that has a good gander cackles loudly.
What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Goose and gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing.
Goose, gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing. (Strauss, 1994 p. 104)
Who wants to win a gander, you need to weigh Drake.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
Life is precious, as the tailor said when running from the gander.
Who wants to win a gander, you need to weigh Drake.
A bairn must creep ere he gang.
Twa words maun gang to that bargain.
Kindnesse will creep where it may not gang.
Keep your tongue a prisoner, and your body will gang free.
Ye may gang farther and fare waur.
For fashion's sake as dogs gang to the market.
She'll keep her ain side o the hoose, an gang up an doun yours.
He wad gang a mile to flit a sow.
He'll gang mad on a horse wha's proud on a pownie.
A gentle word opens an iron gate.
One gentle word opens a gate of iron.
Though the mastiff be gentle, yet bite him not by the lip.
Behind the gentle barb lies the deadly barb.
Gentle doctors cause smelly wounds.
Good people are gentle.
Growl not at guests, nor drive them from the gate but show thyself gentle to the poor.
A gentle breeze blowing in the right direction is better than a pair of strong oars.
Respect old people, and be gentle with children.
A gentle disposition is like an unruffled stream.
Laws too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed.
For a good dinner and a gentle wife you can afford to wait.
Though your mastiff be gentle, do not bite his lip.
The gentle calf sucks all the cows.
Gentle is that gentle does.
Love makes all hearts gentle.
The gods may still send a gentle breeze when they want to bless us.
Always use spurs with a horse, whether it's mean or gentle.
Though your bloodhound be gentle, don't bite him on the lip.
The gentle lamb sucks any ewe as well as its mother; the surly lamb sucks neither its own nor another.
Advices are like snow very gentle but can snowball in the end.
Laws too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed.
A little gall spoils much honey.
Mouth of honey, heart of gall.
A honey tongue, a heart of gall.
Everything tastes bitter to him with gall in his mouth.
A little gall embitters much honey.
Old chains gall less than new.
It is difficult to spit honey out of a mouth full of gall.
A little gall make a great deal of honey bitter.
From the same flower the bee extracts honey and the wasp gall.
The gates of hell are always open, even at midnight.
We taught them how to beg, they raced us to the gates.
You can close the city gates, but you can't close the people's mouths.
Polite words open iron gates.
Trouble is here, so open the gates.
If begging should unfortunately be thy lot, knock at the large gates only.
The castle gates will always open for gold-laden donkeys.
Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell.
Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell.
No matter if you eat a little or a lot of garlic, the smell is just as strong.
There will be a day for the oppressor when he will be crushed like garlic.
Eat leeks in march, garlic in may, all the rest of the year the doctors may play.
The garlic said to the onion: 'you stink.'
Garlic by the savour, bread by the colour.
A nickel will get you on the subway, but garlic will get you a seat.
Garlic is as good as ten mothers.
The mortar always smells of garlic.
The mortar always smells of garlic.
Heart with pepper, soul with garlic.
They made the garlic a bride, its smell did not come out for forty days.
Pound the garlic, Pedro, whilst I grate the cheese.
I speak of garlic, you reply about onions.
Whether you touch it, or you eat it, it's still garlic.
I speak of garlic, you reply about onions. [I speak of one thing, you reply what is wholly irrelevant.].
It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
A genius is he who is first to be right.
Genius can be recognized by its childish simplicity.
The difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits.
A genius is he who is first to be right'.
Common sense is genius dressed in its working clothes.
A genius does not shout his wisdom from the housetops.
Genius is one part inspiration and three parts perspiration.
Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety nine percent perspiration.
Your relations are more deserving of your generosity.
Three things that can't be taught: generosity, poetry and a singing voice.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows: he breathes but does not live.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth.
Authority is in generosity.
Authority is in generosity.
Generosity has its disadvantages.
Generosity is white and pure like milk.
True generosity is the ability to accept ingratitude.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows. He breathes, but does not live.
True generosity is the ability to accept ingratitude.
Our generosity should never exceed our abilities.
Generosity which is dilatory is worth going to meet.
Men would not be richer for being miserly; generosity does not make a man poorer.
Generosity does not make a man poorer.
The bad gardener quarrels with his rake.
A man with good judgment does not make the goat his gardener.
A prudent man does not make the goat his gardener.
Don't try to sell pumpkins to a gardener.
As is the gardener, so is the garden.
More grows in a garden than the gardener sows there.
Fear keeps the garden better than the gardener.
The gardener who loves roses is slave to a thousand thorns.
More grows in the garden than the gardener knows he has sown.
A good name is more valuable than a velvet garment.
Some men wonder over God's values, others over the cut of a garment.
An insult is but a short garment: it reveals the one who wears it.
The moth does most mischief to the finest garment.
In a garment made of silk there are no fleas.
A wide garment does not tear, a proverb does not spoil.
As long as there are lice in the seams of the garment there must be bloodstains on the fingernails.
The garment of peace never fades.
Our last garment is made without pockets.
Desire of glory is the last garment that even wise men put off.
As long as there are lice in the seams of the garment.
As long as there are lice in the seams of the garment.
Life is for one generation; a good name is forever.
It takes three generation to make a gentleman.
Wisdom is what makes a poor man a king, a weak person powerful, a good generation of a bad one, a foolish man reasonable.
One generation plants the trees, the next eats the fruit.
Each generation will reap what the former generation has sown.
One generation plants the trees; another gets the shade.
One generation builds the street on which the next will walk.
Happy the generation where the great listen to the small, for it follows that in such a generation the small will listen to the great.
One generation comes, another goes, the world remains.
New generation can put right the mistakes of the old.
After a battle, everyone is a general.
If you would shoot a general, shoot his horse first.
Even the largest army is nothing without a good general.
A proud heart can survive a general failure because such a failure does not prick its pride.
It is the blood of the soldier that makes the general great.
One bad general is better than two good ones.
God is our general in time of war.
Under a powerful general there are no feeble soldiers.
It is easy to get a thousand soldiers, but difficult to get one general.
If a soldier doesn't have ambitions to become a general is not a good soldier.
Be in general virtuous, and you will be happy.
Without a general an army is lost.
The common soldier's blood makes the general great.
At once a good general and a stout soldier.
A woman for a general, and the soldiers will be women.
After a battle everyone is a general.
Be in general virtuous, and you will be happy.
God is our general in time of war.
Every beetle is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother.
In the eyes of its mother every beetle is a gazelle.
A monkey in its mother's eye is like a gazelle.
Every beetle is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother.
Every frog is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother.
The monkey looks into the mirror and sees a gazelle.
The monkey in his mother's eye is a gazelle.
Wealth comes like a turtle and goes away like a gazelle.
The first drink makes you a frisky gazelle, the second an impetuous zebra, the third a roaring lion, and with the fourth you become a silly donkey.
What good is a golden gallows if they are going to hang you.
A monk in his cloister, a fish in the water, a thief in the gallows.
No armor is proof against the gallows.
He goes as willingly as a thief to the gallows.
Lying is the first step to the gallows.
He who lies, hangs from a gallows - he who does not, hangs twice.
The thief becomes the gallows well.
Save a thief from the gallows and he'll be the first who shall cut your throat.
The gallows was made for the unlucky.
Vain speeches lead a man to the gallows.
On the gallows, the first night is the worst.
A man must eat, though every tree were a gallows.
"bad company,” said the thief, as he went to the gallows between the hangman and a monk.
He who is destined for the gallows will not be drowned.
All criminals turn preachers under the gallows.
The end of the thief is the gallows.
He who was born to be hanged will not be drowned, unless the water go over the gallows.
We must eat and drink though every tree were a gallows.
Both the cross and the gallows are made of wood.
Take down a thief from the gallows and he will hang you up.
The gallows will have its own at last.
Ill company brings many a man to the gallows.
The gallows is not made for the rich, but for the head of the peasant.
First a turnip, then a sheep; next a cow, and then the gallows.
There are more thieves than gallows.
Take down a rogue from the gallows and he will hang you up.
Save a thief from the gallows and he will cut your throat.
The gallows will have its own at last.
He who wants to be rich in a year comes to the gallows in half a year.
The gallows takes its own.
The gallows was made for the unlucky.
Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
If you want to gather a lot of knowledge, act as if you are ignorant.
He that keeps out of harm's way will gather goodly riches.
Wisdom is easy to carry but difficult to gather.
Gather and spare can last long.
Scatter with one hand, gather with two.
The rippling water where birds gather.
Prepare the fallow field well enough and you'll be free to go off and gather the hemp ties.
When the elephant is slain all the tribes gather together to eat of it.
Give cheerfully with one hand and you will gather well with two.
The rose has thorns only for those who would gather it.
Flowing water never goes bad; our door hubs never gather termites.
Gather rosebuds while you may.
Where the carrion is, there the eagles gather.
He that plants thorns must never expect to gather roses.
He who sows hatred shall gather rue.
When the tree falls every one runs to gather sticks.
Standing pools gather filth.
If you put seeds where there are rushes you won't gather toasties.
He who would gather honey must brave the sting of bees.
He who would gather roses, must not fear thorns.
Gather thistles, expect prickles.
As the ocimbamba seeks the low lying tree so friends gather to the friendly person.
Gather your rosebuds while you may.
Standing pools gather filth.
The giant tree grows from a grain.
An ant-hill that is destined to become a giant ant-hill will definitely become one, no matter how many times it is destroyed by elephants.
Death is a giant against whom even the Tsars must draw weapons.
The awakening of a giant shakes the world.
How can man be remembered when the giant trees in the forest are soon forgotten.
It is from a small seed that the giant Iroko tree has its beginning.
Surrounding yourself with dwarfs does not make you a giant.
A giant among the pigmies.
How can man be remembered when the giant trees in the forest are soon forgotten.
Keep your eye on girls that don't tell their mothers everything.
There are three things that can destroy a preacher, the glory, the gold, and the girls.
In the dark all cats and all girls are beautiful.
Where the girls are there are no spider's webs.
One boy is more trouble that a dozen girls.
Beautiful discourse is rarer than emerald, yet it can be found among the servant girls at the grindstones.
To have beautiful servant girls is a threat to good marriages.
Girls will be girls.
Boys seldom make passes at girls wearing glasses.
For tender almonds go to Aragona, to see beautiful young girls go to Favara.
The fox and the girls have the same mind, the fox has cunning eyes and the girls glib tongues.
Pretty girls, nice daughters, but from where do the mean women come?
Pineapples are small, large, and sweet. In other words, all girls are mature.
In the house where there are two girls, the cats die of thirst.
It is of no use making shoes for geese.
What! give the lettuce in charge to the geese!
On Saint Thomas the Divine kill all turkeys, geese and swine.
When the fox preaches, look to the geese.
Putting the fox to mind the geese.
I too can lead the geese to water when it rains.
If a fox is preaching, then beware of your geese.
When the fox preaches, look to the geese.
Geese are plucked as long as they have any feathers.
One quill is better in the hand than seven geese upon the strand.
When a fox preaches, take care of your geese.
When the fox preaches, beware of your geese.
Many women, many words; many geese, many turds.
When the fox licks his paw let the farmer look after his geese.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Take care of your geese when the fox preaches.
He who wants to catch foxes must hunt with geese.
All your geese are swans.
When the fox wants to catch geese, he wags his tail.
Wherever there are women there's talking, and wherever there's geese there's cackling.
Many geese overpower a pig.
He sets the fox to keep his geese.
Goslings lead the geese to water.
When the fox preaches then beware your geese.
If I may not keep geese, I shall keep gesline.
When you are serv'd a' the geese are water'd.
It's ill takkin corn frae geese.
He that eats the king's geese shall be choked with the feathers.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Lots of geese can conquer pigs... Sok lúd disznót győz.
Beware of the geese when the fox preaches.
The goslings would lead the geese out to grass.
There is no queue at the gate of Patience.
A golden hammer breaks an iron gate.
A gentle word opens an iron gate.
One gentle word opens a gate of iron.
The village gate can be closed, the mouth of the fool, never.
The acolyte at the gate reads scriptures he has never learned.
Fortune will call at the smiling gate.
A silver hammer can open an iron gate.
Everything worthwhile has a fence around it, but there is always a gate and a key.
Hannibal is at the gate.
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
He that would make a golden gate, must bring a nail to it daily.
A dog does not always bark at the front gate.
Better a handful of dried figs and content with that, than to own the gate of peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
Growl not at guests, nor drive them from the gate but show thyself gentle to the poor.
Heaven has a road, but no one travels it; Hell has no gate but men will dig to get there.
An open gate lets stock out.
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
Always shut the gate after the horse is out.
Better a handful of dry dates and content therewith than to own the Gate of Peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
Death is a black camel which kneels at every man's gate.
Gold goes in at any gate.
He stares at the new gate as a calf.
A man may speir the gate to Rome.
Many man speirs the gate he kens full well.
Ane Begger is wae, another by the gate gae.
The king's errand may come in the cadger's gate.
It's gude to be out o' harm's gate.
Reason not with the great, 'tis a perilous gate.
Let it be well recorded that a harlot is a gate which leads to death.
When liars enter by the city gate, in front of them there is a finger pointing at them, behind them there is a finger pointing at them.
A creaking gate hangs long.
Fleying a bird is not the gate to grip it.
It's not the gay coat that makes the gentleman.
The clown is best in his own country, and the gentleman anywhere.
A thief is a rogue but the one who repays is a gentleman.
Work like a slave and eat like a gentleman.
It takes three generation to make a gentleman.
A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home.
If you steal something small you are a petty thief, but if you steal millions you are a gentleman of society.
Jack will never make a gentleman.
I am a gentleman and you are a gentleman; who, then, should look after the pigs?
There is no worse devil than a farmer who wants to be a gentleman.
The hat does not make the gentleman nor the cap a lout.
A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich.
God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night.
A true gentleman would rather have his clothes torn than mended.
What is it to be a gentleman? Firstly it is to be thankful and secondly to complain.
Anyone can be polite to a king, but it takes a gentleman to be polite to a beggar.
A farmer on his knees is higher than a gentleman on his legs.
Education begins a gentleman, conversation completes him.
Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury.
A soldier's no boor though no gentleman either.
God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night.
A churl never liked a gentleman.
An insolent lord is not a gentleman.
He is the best gentleman, who is the son of his own deserts.
It is ungentlemanly to lie; truthfulness becomes the gentleman.
Once a gentleman, always a gentleman. (Charles Dickens)
A low-class man will just talk deeds are the hallmark of a gentleman.
When adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?
A true gentleman will respect a woman even in her weakness.
A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich.
Lasses and glasses are always in danger.
Three glasses of wine end a hundred quarrels.
Boys seldom make passes at girls wearing glasses.
More people drown in glasses than in rivers.
What good serve candle and glasses, if the owl does not want to see.
Full bottles and glasses make swearers and asses.
He pays for the glasses who breaks them.
If the eye does not want to see, neither light nor glasses will help.
One glass, not the better of it and not the worse of it. Two glasses, the better of it and not the worse of it. Three glasses, the worse of it and not the better of it.
Everyone is glad to see a knave caught in his own trap.
Only fools are glad when governments change.
When cockroach get in a trouble, him well glad fe fun go hide a fowl-house.
A sad bride makes a glad wife.
Not every one that dances is glad.
Rejoice not ever at tidings of ill, but glad let thy soul be in good.
A hungry man is glad to get boiled wheat.
Wine makes glad the heart of man.
A cow-year, a sad year; a bull-year, a glad year.
A very jealous person is glad when somebody else cries.
Upon a glad heart oil is poured out of which no one knows.
Let us be glad to those who make us happy.
A blind man would be glad to see.
Poor folks are glad of porridge.
A Presbyterian minister had a son who was made Archdeacon of Ossery; when this was told to his father, he said, 'If my son will be a knave, I am glad that he will be an archknave.'
Old age is not a joy, but death is not a gain.
Pain is forgotten where gain comes.
When one is helping another, both gain in strength.
Continually give, continually gain.
The woman who tells her age is either too young to have anything to lose or too old to have anything to gain.
A smile will gain you ten more years of life.
To spend much and gain little is the sure road to ruin.
A list full of gain and a village full of shame.
Ignorance of one's misfortunes is clear gain.
There's no great loss without some gain.
Better gain in mud than lose in gold.
Savings are the first gain.
A clever master turns even a loss into a gain.
Everyone thinks of his own gain, and plays in this way to deceive his companion.
Give at first asking what you safely can; 'tis certain gain to help an honest man.
He who does not gain loses.
Once you lost the trust of someone, it is almost impossible to gain it back.
A morsel eaten selfishly does not gain a friend.
To win a dispute is to gain a chicken and lose a cow.
The more you eat, the more you gain.
A day of reading is a day of gain; a day without reading is ten days of loss.
A fall into a ditch, a gain in your wit.
No risk, no gain.
Hope of gain lessens pain.
Learn weeping and thou shalt gain laughing.
No gain without pain.
The fruit of timidity is neither gain nor loss.
What you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts.
The one who does not risk anything does not gain nor lose.
Better gain in mud than lose in gold.
He who risks nothing can gain nothing.
An advantage of poverty, your relatives gain nothing by your death.
There is no loss, which is not a gain for somebody.
Learn weeping, and you shall gain laughing.
The spider that knows what it will gain sits waiting patiently in its web. The praying mantis is never tired waiting all day.
Patient people are patient to gain longevity.
There is rarely gain without deception.
By cultivating bottom land, you gain sustenance and goods.
Nothing venture, nothing gain.
Give way to him with whom you contend; by doing so you will gain the victory.
One man's loss is another man's gain.
No gain is as certain as that which proceeds from the economical use of what you already have.
No gain satisfies a greedy mind.
An evil gain is equal to a loss.
Meaning: Work hard and you shall gain success.
No risk, no gain.
No risk, no gain.
He who takes a lot of risks loses more than he can gain.
If you show a rich man kindness, you gain nothing.
One man's loss is another man's gain.
Gluttony and vanity grow with age.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
A strong man is remembered on the day of the fight, and a gluttony on the day pounded yam is surplus.
The gluttony of the monk and the appetite of the priest.
Gluttony has killed more than the sword.
Many fall by the sword, but more from gluttony.
Hunger and thirst scarcely kill any, But gluttony and drink kill a great many.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
A bald-headed man will not grow hair by getting excited.
There's nobody can prevent you getting into heaven, but there are many always ready to give you a shove into hell.
Using up the arrows, before getting into battle.
By getting angry, one shows that she is wrong.
There is no coincidence in getting married.
If things are getting easier, maybe you're headed downhill.
It is harder work getting to hell than to heaven.
A shrew gets her wish but suffers in the getting.
There's no getting to heaven in a coach.
The fish that can see that its water is getting shallower, cannot be stranded.
Hope does not kill; I shall live in hope of getting what I seek another day.
Older but instead of getting wiser, one gets naughtier.
By getting angry, you show you are wrong.
Like the cat in the tree, getting caught up in the chase can leave us in an awkward place.
He who selects coconut with great care ends up getting a bad coconut.
Getting money is like digging with a needle. Spending it is like water soaking into the sand.
It never rains on your neighbors without you getting your feet wet.
One who walks along a river frequently cannot avoid getting his shoes wet.
One may get up late if one has the name of getting up early.
Getting things done is largely a matter of getting things started.
Getting what you go after is called success, but liking it while you are getting it is called happiness.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
He who eats cherries with gentlemen risks getting the pips in his nose.
If you are going to fight, pray once; if you are going to sail, pray twice; if you are getting married, then pray thrice.
He who is slow to anger is longer getting over it.
A herbalist that refuses to ask laymen what leaves he looks for in the bush, must have difficulties getting what he wants.
Getting married with a woman is nothing; it's assuming the responsibility of marriage that counts.
Don't prod the donkey while you're getting on.
Crowd around for the getting, move out of the way when it's time to pay.
They prevent us from getting red clay from the pit, and they do not use it.
He who talks without thinking dies without getting sick.
To be a merchant, the art consists more in getting paid than in making sales.
In the strong following wind. (Getting drunk)
"Botofe bo le iwa.” : Rubber is death (present day Congo proverb)
A bald-headed man will not grow hair by getting excited.
The bride's getting ready but the groom has no idea.
If you see a couple getting on well, you know it's down to one of them.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
Не who would catch fish must not mind getting wet.
One does not cross a river without getting wet.
Refrain from getting involved in something that hasn't been well thought out.
In a game it's difficult to know when to stop.
He who looks on has two-thirds of the game.
At the end of the game we see who wins.
At the end of the game, the pawn and the king go back in the same box.
The roaring lion kills no game.
The roaring lion kills no game.
You are the game while the games lasts.
Even a superb hawk will not catch game unless it is loosed.
By the time the fool has learned the game, the players have dispersed.
He who looks on know more of the game than he who plays.
Women and wine, game and deceit, Make the wealth small and the wants great.
Those who play the game do not see it as clearly as those who watch.
A looker on sees more of the game than a player.
After the game, the King and the pawn go into the same box.
At the end of the game you'll see who's the winner.
Once the game is over, the king and the pawn go back into the same box.
In the game no one is brother to others.
Life is like a game in which God shuffles the cards, the devil deals them and we have to play the trumps.
The big game often appears when the hunter has given up the hunt for the day.
‘hit me but I must not hit you' is no game at all.
A bad job is not as wothless as a good game.
He who makes the first bad move always loses the game.
Men in the game are blind to what men looking on see clearly.
A man of high principles is someone who can watch a chess game without passing comment.
If you must play, decide upon three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time.
A roaring lion kills no game.
By the time the fool has learned to play the game, the players have dispersed.
Condition is 90 percent of the game.
Possession is nine-tenths of the game.
The game isn't worth the candle.
Better play a small game than to stand out.
When shepherds quarrel, the wolf has a winning game.
Better play at small game than stand out.
Perseverance kills the game.
Many people can pack the cards; fewer can play the game.
It is a bad game where nobody wins.
Lookers-on see most of the game.
Who knows not the game, let him not play.
When luck joins in the game, cleverness scores double.
He who leaves the game, loses.
Win a game of your friend, and drink the money on the spot.
Perseverance kills the game.
Talk of sporting, and buy game in the market.
The more you flatter a fool, the more seriously he plays his game.
A looker on sees more of the game than a player.
Better play at small game than stand out.
He who enters the game must endure it.
Jealous? Hate the game and not the player.
Jealous Hate the game and not the player.
When a lion roars, he does not catch game.
Condition is 90 percent of the game.
A fool only wins the first game.
When luck joins in the game, cleverness scores double.
You can't teach an old dog how to gnaw a bone.
It is better to hear the nightingale sing than the mouse gnaw.
In time a mouse will gnaw through a cable.
He who is late may gnaw the bones.
Care shall gnaw thy heart if thou canst not tell all thy mind to another.
It's a poor mouse that sits on the sack and doesn't gnaw.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
What good is giving sugar to the dead?
Often the best way of giving oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has.
Giving advice to the ignorant is like the rain falling on muddy ground.
To promise much means giving little.
True happiness lies in giving it to others.
To give jewels to a donkey is as stupid as giving a eunuch to a woman.
If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself.
For the ugly vice of begging, there's the virtue of not giving.
Giving gold coins to a cat.
Promising is not giving, but serves to content fools.
Not much can be done when everyone is giving orders.
No one ever became poor through giving alms.
Giving is fishing.
Set aside emergencies and help a woman giving birth.
Giving just a crumb to the hungry is worth more than giving lunch to the satisfied.
He that's long a giving, knows not how to give.
The generous man enriches himself by giving; the miser hoards himself poor.
One does not regret giving one's own ear-ring to one's dear friend.
Giving alms never lessens the purse.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not giving it wings.
Sharing and giving are the ways of God.
Giving advice to a stupid man is like giving salt to a squirrel.
For him who is accustomed to taking giving away is a battle.
Of what good is giving birth when later there regrets of disrespect.
You are like a tree, giving your shade to the outside.
Leading by example is better than giving and advice.
Giving what one does not possess is always a sign of charity.
Giving promptly is like giving twice.
Between promising and giving a man should marry his daughter.
No one became poor by giving alms.
He ruins himself in promises, and clears himself by giving nothing.
To offer friendship to one who is looking for love, is like giving bread to someone dying of thirst.
Say nothing when you are giving -- only say something when you are receiving.
Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe. Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for its living, And a child that's born of the Sabbath day Is fair and wise and good and gay.
Don't blame God for creating the tiger -- instead, thank him for not giving it wings.
The way a donkey expresses gratitude is by giving someone a bunch of kicks.
Giving a warning to one who is doomed (i.e. a futile task.)
He who is bad at giving a lodging is good at show the road.
Giving much to the poor doth enrich a man's store.
He that is long giving knows not how to give.
Better, ‘There he goes', than ‘There he hangs'.
Who goes not, sees not; who proves not, believes not.
So got, so gone.
He that goes a-borrowing, goes a-sorrowing.
What goes up must come down.
What's gone, is gone.
Who sells, goes down; who buys, goes up.
He who goes everywhere gains everywhere.
What goes up must come down.
If God does not grant you glory, be content with fame.
There's no glory without sacrifice.
The glory of ancestors should not prevent a man winning glory for himself.
An aged steed confined to the stable still aspires after the glory of galloping a thousand miles.
Glory is fitting to God alone.
There are three things that can destroy a preacher, the glory, the gold, and the girls.
Sudden glory soon goes out.
A man gains nothing by vain glory but contempt and hatred.
So ends all earthly glory.
Merit and glory never adorn a nightcap.
May the smile of God light you to glory.
When glory comes, loss of memory follows.
Popularity is the small change of glory.
When glory comes, memory departs.
Glory lies still; abuse is running.
Your ancestor's glory should not prevent you from winning your own.
Desire of glory is the last garment that even wise men put off.
Glory is the shadow of virtue.
Envy is the companion of glory.
Unless what we do is useful, glory is vain.
Where there is no temptation there is no glory.
The voice of the duck is the glory of the marshes.
Glory to the brave people.
The wood pigeon's voice is the glory of the garden.
The francolin's voice is the glory of the fields.
The voice of the forest kujanun bird is the glory of the tamarisks.
It flies at our approach but follows us as we retire. [A Shadow, Glory, or Love.].
A woman's belly is a garden with many kinds of fruit.
Knowledge is like a garden: if it is not cultivated, it cannot be harvested.
When the white man is about to leave a garden for good, he wrecks it.
A woman is a flower in a garden; her husband is the fence around it.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
If you're a shoveler, shovel your garden first.
A book is like a garden in the pocket.
Love is a garden full of flowers and marriage is a field of stinging nettles.
We have quite enough to do weeding our own garden.
To a physician a sick man is a garden.
The sick man is the garden of the physicians.
If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.
Everyone is nice until the cow gets into the garden.
Don't cut your cactus in a neighbor's garden.
Unfenced garden - fenced in desert.
It is better to be in chains with friends, than to be in a garden with strangers.
Friends are flowers in the garden of life.
Patience is a plant that does not grow in everyone's garden.
A man of words and not deeds, Is like a garden full of weeds.
Criticizing another's garden doesn't keep the weeds out of your own.
Patience is a flower that grows not in everyone's garden.
Much more than you have sown will grow in your garden.
If mushrooms grew in the mouth, that would be not mouth but kitchen garden.
If you throw nettles into your neighbors garden you will find them growing in your own.
To one who knows no better, a small garden is a forest.
To one who does not know, a who garden is a forest.
Don't cut your cactus in a neighbor's garden.
There is little use building a fence around the garden to keep out the rabbits.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
Intelligence is a fruit picked in the neighbour's garden.
Some people like to make of life a garden, and to walk only within its paths.
Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden.
The flowers in your garden don't smell as sweet as those in the wild, but they last much longer.
Knowledge is like a garden: If it is not cultivated, it cannot be harvested.
Don't water your friend's garden when yours is full of weeds.
Even when you dig a soft place, you still leave the garden.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
Make a garden or plant, and a man is happy for life.
A good garden always has weeds.
No garden without its weeds.
A book is a garden carried in the pocket.
The herb patience does not grow in every man's garden.
A woman without a man is like a garden without a fence.
As is the gardener, so is the garden.
The three most beautiful sights: a potato garden in bloom, a ship under sail, and a woman after the birth of a child.
If you would be happy for a week take a wife; if you would be happy for a month kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life plant a garden.
More grows in a garden than the gardener sows there.
When a wolf is mentioned, he is already walking round the garden.
Fear keeps the garden better than the gardener.
Rhue and time, grows both in ane garden.
If Bastelica had a port, Ajaccio would be its garden.
A man could die just cultivating fava beans and the kitchen garden.
Vegetable garden and mill, don't tell your neighbor how much they yield.
Don't make an oven of your cap or a garden of your belly.
He that will bare-foot go must not plant a garden of thistle.
You must not throw stones into your neighbor's garden.
In the garden of time grows the flower of consolation.
A woman's belly is a garden with many fruits.
He will never worship well the image on the altar who knew it when it was a trunk of wood in the garden.
The gardener's feet do no harm to the garden.
Cultivate the garden within.
Friends are flowers in life's garden.
Love this Earth as if you won't be here tomorrow show reverence for your Garden as if you will be here forever.
Welcome to my garden.
Remember, it is forbidden to live in a town which has no garden or greenery.
More grows in the garden than the gardener knows he has sown.
Garden flowers larger, field flowers stronger.
To one who does not know, a small garden is a forest.
He that hires one garden eats birds; he that hires more than one will be eaten by the birds.
Every man is sociable until a cow invades his garden.
The wood pigeon's voice is the glory of the garden.
The francolin's voice is the glory of the fields.
No garden without its weeds.
A man o' words, and no o' deeds, is like a garden fu' o' weeds.
Rue and time grew baith at ae garden.
Go early to the garden and the mill.
More things grow in the garden than the gardener sows.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
A girl with a golden cradle doesn't remain long in her father's house.
"force me, and I shall commit no sin,” said the girl.
It is easier to watch over one hundred fleas than one young girl.
A girl only gets pregnant once.
A girl unemployed is thinking of mischief.
When a girl is born all four walls weep.
"if it is not a boy it will be a girl,” says the fortune-teller.
Away from home the girl picks forbidden fruit.
If a girl seems as shy as a mouse, you still have to look out for the tiger within her.
A whistling girl and a crowing hen never came to a good end.
Marry a mountain girl and you marry the whole mountain.
A girl, a vineyard, an orchard, and a bean-field, are hard to watch.
A girl, a vineyard and a bean field are difficult to guard.
With a bottle and a girl one does not count the hours.
When a girl is born it is like having six thieves invade the house.
A girl without a needle is like a cat without a claw.
An unlucky girl may make a good woman.
The girl who can't dance says the band can't play.
Her father's fortune will make the ugliest girl attractive.
You cannot weld cake-dough to cast iron, nor a girl to an old man.
She would be a nice girl if she didn't have her head.
An ugly girl blames the mirror.
Girl, do not exult in thy wedding dress; see how much trouble lurks behind it.
When a girl in the teahouse smiles at you, look the other way.
A girl receives, a widow takes her husband.
A girl apes her neighbor's frowning.
Even when a girl is as shy as a mouse, you still have to beware of the tiger within.
A happy man marries the girl he loves, but a happier man loves the girl he marries.
If you keep stirring at a girl you cannot have you will never see a girl you can have.
A whistling girl and a cackling hen come to no good end.
Don't marry a girl who wants strawberries in January.
The best chaperon a girl can have is to be in love with another fellow.
When a girl whistles, the angels cry.
Even the devil's grandmother was a nice girl when she was young.
You have to put a young girl onto an old man.
It is easier to guard a sack full of fleas than a girl in love.
It's always something said the girl with a nosebleed.
One for sorrow, two for joy, three for a girl, four for a boy, five for silver, six for gold, and seven for a secret that must never be told.
A neck without a head, buttocks without a hole and a girl without shame are not worth admiring or marrying.
Her beauty is the only dowery a beautiful girl needs.
The girl as she is taught, the flax as it is wrought.
A girl draws more than a rope.
A gadding girl is rarely coy.
Girl, your brother cannot choose for you; whom do you choose?
Girl, your brother is like me. A brother should let you live as would I.
Coffee hot and the girl young.
A girl that blushes too much, knows too much.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
Here's to a long life and a merry one. A quick death and an easy one. A pretty girl and an honest one. A cold pint and another one!
A neighbor's hen looks as big as a goose, and his wife as young as a girl.
A girl without a mother is like a mountain with no paths.
A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks, an ugly girl by the help of a mirror.
A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks.
A girl who cannot patch man's trousers in between the legs, must not marry at all, because what use does a man have of such a stupid wife.
A rich man is never ugly in the eyes of a girl.
A girl never grows into a lady.
If peace reigns in the land, a nun can govern it.
Who can't pretend cannot govern.
Govern yourself and you can govern the world.
You can teach other people how to learn other languages but you can't teach them how to govern themselves.
A prince without ears to listen has no head to govern.
Even a fool can govern if nothing happens.
"Yes" and "no" govern the world.
Govern your passions, or they will govern you.
It is easy to govern a kingdom but difficult to rule one's family.
Gossip about a person and his shadow will appear.
Whoever gossips to you will gossip about you.
Better lie than gossip.
Where there is gossip, there will be arguing.
It is easier to dam a river than to stop the flow of gossip.
Gossip needs no carriage.
Who gossips to you will gossip of you.
Whoever gossips to you will gossip of you.
Wolves never gossip about each other.
Who gossips to you will gossip about you.
Trust not your gossip to a priest who has been a friar.
Whoever gossips to you will gossip of you.
Someone who gossips to you will gossip about you.
The thief does not gossip about his accomplice.
A tongue that dives about like a shrimp. (about a malicious gossip/scandalmonger)
Goodness is the only investment that never fails.
Goodness shouts. Evil whispers.
Wrath often consumes what goodness husbands.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth.
Goodness speaks in a whisper, evil shouts.
Beauty will fade, but not goodness.
Not all goodness brings sweetness.
Nobody can see his own goodness: it can be seen only by others.
There is no evil without goodness.
To talk goodness is not good . . . only to do it is.
Man's goodness is a flame that can be hidden but never extinguished.
Every family has a goodness of mercy.
Beware of he whose goodness you can't ask for for and whose evil you can't be protected from.
Goodness reaches further than badness.
A long dispute has been forgoten by love, or sometimes a long time of goodness has been forgotten by one badness.
In the report, of riches and goodness always bate one half.
People get the government they deserve.
The harm done by an elephant is like that done by a storm, or by the government.
Fire, water and government know nothing of mercy.
Good enough for Government work.
When the government has no ears to listen with, then she has no head for governing.
Don't worry about the weather or the government.
Fire, water, and government know nothing of mercy.
Love work, loath mastery over others, and avoid intimacy with the government. -Shmaayah.
Fire, water, and government know nothing of mercy.
That government is best which governs least.
What the Gods make, the planet can find use for.
Take care how you beseech the Gods for a gift, for they will give it to you.
Greetings are the patron gods of our time.
The gods just laugh when men pray to them for wealth.
Time spent laughing is time spent with the kami [gods].
The mills of the gods grind slowly but they grind finely.
When the Gods are angry with a man, they give him what he asks for.
You have to believe in Gods to see them.
Against the beastly human being even the Gods are powerless.
Kinsmen are born, but friendship is a gift of the Gods.
From gods that are left alone, there is no curse.
Some pray to the gods only when in trouble.
When men speak of the future, the gods laugh.
Though you don't believe in other gods, you believe in the god of thunder; though you don't believe in medicine generally, you believe in laxatives.
The farmer hopes for rain, the walker hopes for sunshine, and the gods hesitate.
When you lose on the drum-beating if the Gods, you lose on the rhythm and pace of life.
What the gods keep for the poor, no man can destroy.
The voices of the ancestors are the voices of the gods.
It is when one holds the sacrificial lamb that he begins to seek the gods.
He that dines with the gods must do so with a very long spoon.
Don't throw away your nets if you catch nothing, you never know what the gods are planning next.
Give the emperor what is the emperors and God what is Gods.
They are the gods themselves that white-wash the fruits of the pumpkins.
He whose throat is longer than his arm must pray constantly for gods' protection.
The gods may still send a gentle breeze when they want to bless us.
The gods only hear one wish at a time, and nothing more.
Greatness and beauty do not belong to the gods alone.
Take the goods the gods provide.
Worship the gods of where you live.
Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad.
The gods assist the industrious.
The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth.
The avenging gods have their feet clothed in wool.
Even the gods are conciliated by offerings.
Many meet the gods, but few salute them.
Des volks stem is Gods stem.
The gods do not deduct from marls allotted span the hours spent fishing.
Drunkards talk to the gods.
When you're a stranger in a land, if good comes to it may you have you share and if bad comes let it go to the owners of the land who know what gods should be appeased.
Greatness and beauty do not belong to the Gods alone.
The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth.
Children aren't dogs; adults aren't gods.
Gods help those who do.
Whom the gods hate, they make pedagogues.
Beauty widout grace like rose widout smell.
That which in the beautiful woman is grace, in the ugly woman turns to disgrace.
As the grace of man is in the mind, so the beauty of the mind is eloquence.
A king's face should show grace.
The grace of God is found between the saddle and the ground.
He who gets the grace of the women is neither hungry nor thirsty.
The grace of God is geir enough.
In space, comes Grace.
Hoordom and grace, can never bide in one place.
Every beauty has some fault and every plain jane some grace.
Without grace, beauty is an unbaited hook.
Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe. Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for its living, And a child that's born of the Sabbath day Is fair and wise and good and gay.
Grace will last, beauty will blast.
Pride and grace dwell never in ae place.
Grace could be natural.
A prompt refusal has in part the grace of a favour granted.
Do not look at gift horse's mouth.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Advice is a free gift that can become expensive for the one who gets it.
A gift, though small, is welcome.
They don't count the teeth of a gift horse.
One doesn't examine the teeth of a gift horse.
It is a greater gift to give than to receive.
He who accepts the gift loses his liberty.
Just because a loan is old, that does not make it a gift.
A bad man's gift is like his master.
A small gift is better than a great promise.
He who receives a gift does not measure.
If you receive a gift don't measure it.
He who refuses a gift will not fill his barn.
Take care how you beseech the Gods for a gift, for they will give it to you.
A padded jacket is an acceptable gift even in summer.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
What you are is God's gift to you what you do with yourself is your gift to God.
Never heed the colour of a gift horse.
A gift delayed, and long expected, is not given, but sold dear.
A gift long expected is sold, not given.
A gift long waited for is sold, not given.
A wicked man's gift has a touch of his master.
Do not look at the tooth of a gift horse.
Beautiful day, a gift for the traveller.
You don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
To take revenge on an enemy, give him an elephant -- first he must thank you for the gift, and then the elephant's appetite will deplete your enemy's resources.
A guest is a gift, a thief a tragedy.
Kinsmen are born, but friendship is a gift of the Gods.
Great wealth is a gift from heaven; moderate wealth results from frugality.
You don't give someone a goat for a gift and still hold on to the rope.
A gift is better than a promise.
Education is a gift that none can take away.
The giver makes the gift precious.
Unwrapping a gift wraps up enmity.
What is bought is cheaper than a gift.
Every one sings as he has the gift, and marries as he has the luck.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Injurious is the gift that takes away freedom.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
A gift much expected is paid, not given.
Who receives a gift sells his liberty.
No man ought to look a gift horse in the mouth.
A wicked man's gift hath a touch of his master.
I would know your gift by your graciousness.
One favours him from whom one has in the past received a gift.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
If you give a gift to a rich man, the devil sniggers.
A wicked man's gift hath a touch of his master.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
Life is a gift for which we pay dearly.
A small gift, but well-timed.
For a paltry gift, little thanks.
He gives well and bountifully who accompanies the gift with a pleasing look.
It doubles the value of a gift to be well-timed.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Masters who sacrifice for servants will receive the gift of loyalty.
One shouldn't look a gift horse in the mouth.
The gift of the king is the nobility of the exalted; the gift of the king is the favor of governors.
Don't count the teeth of a gift horse.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Storm in a glass of water.
When a stone hits glass, the glass breaks. When glass hits a stone, the glass breaks.
A rash man, a skin of good wine, and a glass vessel, do not last long.
He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at his neighbour's.
Drink a glass of wine after your soup and you will be stealing a ruble from the doctor.
If you live in a glass house, don't throw stones.
He whose house is made out of glass, shouldn't throw stones at people.
Do not shoot a glass arrow into a painted deer.
A diamond daughter turns to glass as a wife.
He that lives in a glass house must not throw stones.
If your house is of glass, don't throw rocks at others.
He who lives in a glass house should not throw stones.
Don't throw rocks if you live in a house of glass.
He who lives in a glass house should be the last to throw stones.
Give a hungarian a glass of water and a gypsy fiddler and he will become completely drunk.
Fortune is made of glass.
The looking glass is the enemy of ugly women.
A strange glass is emptied in one draught; your own glass not even in ten.
Fortune and glass break easily.
Fortune and glass break soon, alas.
Love is like a glass that breaks if handled clumsily.
A hammer will shatter glass yet it can forge steel.
The hammer shatters glass but hardens steel.
Ain't no use askin' the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
If my belly is of glass, I will fill it with bread and chicken; if it is a closed cellar, I will fill it with cockroaches.
One glass can ruin all the beer.
With the first glass a man drinks wine, with the second glass the wine drinks the wine, with the third glass the wine drinks the man.
There's no use asking the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
Don't buy a cow to get a glass of milk.
Sometimes people who live in glass houses throw stones because their windows are painted.
The First glass is for health, the second - for joy, the third - for fun, the fourth - for madness.
When a stone hits glass, the glass breaks.
The same hammer that breaks the glass forges the steel.
He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another.
Proverbs bear age, and he who would do well may view himself in them as in a looking glass.
He who has a glass roof should not throw stones at his neighbour's.
By the first glass a lamb, the second a lion, and the third a pig.
A storm in a glass of water.
He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another.
A blind man needs no looking glass.
Men in glass houses should not throw stones.
A plaster house, a horse at grass, a friend in words, are all mere glass.
A hammer breaks glass, but also forms steel. Everything cannot be hung on one nail.
Vinegar that is too sour even taints the glass it's kept in.
A woman and a glass are always in danger.
He whose house is tiled with glass should not throw stones at his neighbour's.
The first marriage is a plate of honey, the second a glass of wine, and the third is a cup of poison.
Glass, China, and Reputation, are easily crack'd and never well mended.
Let's sing a song from the book with glass cover.
We've drowned in a glass of water.
Great business is good; to sit and sip this glass is better.
A woman and a glass are always in danger.
One glass, not the better of it and not the worse of it. Two glasses, the better of it and not the worse of it. Three glasses, the worse of it and not the better of it.
All my goods are of silver and gold, even my copper kettle, says the boaster.
Common goods, no goods.
If there was not bad taste, goods would not be sold.
To have a clear tongue is better than having goods which you can't manage well.
Unearned riches have no goods.
Free ships, free goods.
Take a friend for what he does, a wife for what she has, and goods for what they are worth.
Ill-gotten goods never thrive.
Ill-gotten goods seldom prosper.
Deceive me about the price but not about the goods.
Merchant's goods are ebb and flood.
The best goods are the cheapest.
A man may lose his goods for want of demanding them.
If everyone thought the same way, no goods would ever be sold.
Goods given make quicker return than goods held.
Steal goods and you'll go to prison, steal lands and you are a king.
To pretend to satisfy one's desires with worldly goods is like using straw to put out a fire.
Cheat me in the price, but not in the goods.
When thieves fall out the peasant recovers his goods.
All men are free of other men's goods.
If you give your goods without a pledge, you show little inventiveness.
By cultivating bottom land, you gain sustenance and goods.
When goods increase the body decreases.
The wise man boasts of his goods and wares; the foolish one of his young wife.
Take the goods the gods provide.
A good merchant has neither money nor goods.
Cheat me in the price and not in the goods.
Cheat me with the price, but not with the goods I buy.
Puffed goods are putrid.
The best goods are cheapest in the end. (Kelly, 1859 p, 95)
Quality goods advertise themselves.
Good goods, cheap goods.
The man with a fixed income lives with anxiety and suffers as the costs of goods fluctuate.
Riches are not from abundance of worldly goods, but from a contented mind.
A good man is a man of goods.
There is nothing to be gained by buying inferior goods.
Some men build a wine cellar after only finding one grape.
Good grape becomes fox's possession.
The fox did not reach the grape, said it's unripe.
Once grape gathering has finished, you have to hang up the basket.
The olive grove of your grandfather, the cherry trees of your father, and your grape vines.
The end of the grape cluster.
Like grape, like bud. Like father, like son.
Rather a single grape for me than a brace of figs for thee.
The father gave his son a vineyard, the son didn't give the father even a grape.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
Teaching a jew to deal in the market is like teaching grandmother to eat her eggs.
There's no quiet child nor young grandmother.
The baby nursed by its grandmother can never be corrected.
Even the devil's grandmother was a nice girl when she was young.
"age before beauty,” said the devil as he threw his grandmother off' the stairs.
Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
You do not really understand something unless you can explain it to your grandmother.
There was already twenty in the family, so my grandmother had a baby.
God grant me to dispute with those who understand me.
God grant me a good sword and no use for it.
May the lord grant me a sword and no need to use it.
God grant you good fortune, my son, for knowledge avails you little.
God grant me to argue with those who understand me.
God grant me to contend with those that understand me.
God grant, dear wife, that this son be ours.
Courts grant not their favours as men are good and deserving.
Great Spirit, grant that I may not criticize my neighbor until I have walked a mile in his moccasins.
If the throat can grant passage to a knife, the anus should wonder how to expel it.
God grant us no neighbor with two eyes.
Who has many comforts and does not use them, won't find a confessor who will grant him absolution.
A civil denial is better than a rude grant.
One finds little ingratitude so long as one is in a position to grant favors.
It is but fair that he who requires indulgence for his own offences should grant it to others.
May the people wish you well. May your god grant what you are in agreement with.
Nineteen nay-says of a maiden are half a grant.
God gives but does not lock the gate.
God gives almonds to one who has no teeth.
The hand that gives is also the one that receives.
He who willingly gives you a finger will also give you the whole hand.
If the hand gives, but the heart does not, nothing happens.
Whatever your uncle gives you, take.
He gives a party with bath-water.
The fat woman gives the sweetest ride.
Mutual affection gives each his share.
He who gives a monkey as a present doesn't keep hold of its tail.
The barking dog gives you no power -- it gives you fear.
Rather than an abatement of her viciousness, a witch gives birth to only female children and witchcraft multiplies .
God gives the wheat, He doesn't bake the bread.
Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade.
God gives to us according to the measure of our hearts.
He gives him roast meat and beats him with the spit.
The lover who gives you her body but not her heart is generous with thornless roses.
He gives from caliph's bag.
Early sleep and early wake up, gives health and makes you grow.
Not much is achieved where everyone gives the orders.
To him who gives you a pig you may well give a rasher.
One good punch on your enemy's nose, gives more pleasure than hearing well-meaning advice from your elders.
Beware of the person who gives you advice according to his own interests.
God gives burdens also shoulders.
The man who gives little with a smile gives more than the man who gives much with a frown.
God gives the milk, but not the pail.
He who gives alms to the poor faces heaven.
Wrath often consumes what God gives husbands.
Experience is the comb that nature gives us when we are bald.
The man to whom God gives no children, the devil gives nieces and nephews.
God gives nothing to those who keep their arms crossed.
The hand which gives is better than the one which receives.
He who fears something gives it power over him.
Allah gives dried beans to eat to him who has no teeth left.
The pumpkin gives birth and the fence has the trouble.
The empty gives the way to the full.
If he gives you a rope, tie him with it.
The old man gives the best advice.
If God gives you leprosy, look to your own past misdeeds.
What nature gives us is not refused.
A bit of fragrance clings to the hand that gives flowers.
One gives by tons, but takes accounts by ounces.
When God gives, he doesn't ask whose son a person is.
When a blind man is happy he gives money to his child to buy kerosene for his lamp.
When your friend gives your wife an expensive present, it's time to get suspicious.
Experience is a comb which fate gives to a man when his hair is all gone.
Despair gives courage to a coward.
Thank who gives you and give who thanks you.
He that dallies with his enemy gives him leave to kill him.
Honour the tree that gives you shelter.
Avarice hoards itself poor; charity gives itself rich.
Charity gives itself rich; covetousness hoards itself poor.
Fortune gives her hand to a bold man.
The cow gives milk through her mouth.
God gives, but man must open his hand.
Of what use is it that the cow gives plenty of milk, if she upset the pail.
The will gives the work its name.
The old pipe gives the sweetest smoke.
He, who gives much, will soon start begging.
One only gives what one has.
God gives nuts to who has no teeth.
A noisy cow gives little milk.
God gives food to every bird, but does not throw it into the nest.
The woman who gives is seldom good; the woman who accepts is in the power of the giver.
He who takes a woman gives away his freedom.
He who gives bread to others' dogs is often barked at by his own.
A fool gives full vent to his anger, but a wise man keeps himself under control.
Every one gives himself credit for more brains than he has, and less money.
He has gained enough who gives up a vain hope.
Cast no dirt into the well that gives you water.
The devil gives even rich men presents.
Practice gives skill.
God gives every bird his worm, but he does not throw it into the nest.
Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow.
One gives twice who gives quickly.
Time gives good advice.
Who gives, has.
When God gives a child, he also gives the clothing.
Coal that does not burn gives little heat.
When love is given, love should be returned, anger gives no life.
Who gives in need, gives double.
The bad neighbour gives a needle without thread.
God gives birds their food, but they must fly for it.
Hunger gives a relish even to raw beans.
You must chop down the tree that gives too much or too little shade.
Everyone loves the tree that gives him shelter.
He who gives little gives from his heart; he who gives much gives from his wealth.
To him who gives you a capon you may spare a leg and a wing.
When you are given, eat, when you are beaten, run away.
Because the cat was given no meat, he said it was Friday.
Every man goes down to his death bearing in his hands only that which he has given away.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than gold given at the wrong time.
Let every one be content with what God has given him.
Basketeer who makes a basket makes a hundred if he's given line and time.
Blows are not given upon conditions.
Good advice is given, good esteem is not given.
A favor given to man is appreciated by none.
The bone given to you by the king is meat.
Find as much love as was given by your father and mother many times.
calf is given, but then thigh is requested.
When you have given nothing, ask for nothing.
Long borrowed is not given.
Wisdom is a comb given to a man once he is bald.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue; to the end we should hear and see more than we speak.
Raise what you've given birth to.
God has given nuts to some who have no teeth.
A gift delayed, and long expected, is not given, but sold dear.
A gift long expected is sold, not given.
A gift long waited for is sold, not given.
Sometimes an egg is given for an ox.
The flavour of health is given by an illness.
Freedom is never given but taken.
Given counsel is all the same hard to take.
When love is given, love should be returned, anger gives no life.
A buffeting threatened is never well given.
To him that hath much, shall much be given.
Treat the earth well. It was not given to you by your parents. It is loaned to you by your children.
What gives the child the itch has already given him the fingernails for scratching it.
The big game often appears when the hunter has given up the hunt for the day.
Goods given make quicker return than goods held.
In order to find evildoers, every human being is given a name.
Scabics are given to him who has no fingernails.
When someone offends you, you haven't given him enough love.
The man who strikes first admits that his ideas have given out.
Alms given openly will be rewarded in secret.
Forget the favors you have given; remember those received.
To whom to much is given we require too much from him.
He who has given up doesn't blame the one moving on.
The best morsels are never given to a beggar.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than that which is given by the sword.
The generous can forget that they have given, but the grateful can never forget that they have received.
Advice given in the midst of a crowd is loathsome.
Whatever is given to the poor, is laid out of the reach of fortune.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue.
He has given the hen for the egg.
When given a kingdom, the gypsy asks: what about bread?
Of a given horse, one shouldn't check the teeth.
A threatened buffet is never well given.
Even God our Lord has given way to a drunken man.
More credit is given to the eyes than to the ears.
What was given by God to one, cannot be taken away by man.
Don't look a horse that was given to you in the mouth.
One should watch out for a very trifling or lame reason given for something that has been done.
God has created us brothers but has given us separate purses.
Who does not share what he is given will not share what he has in his barn.
Water, advice, and salt unasked for should not be given.
What is given by God, can't be lacking.
The cow is given a present when her calf is carried away.
A good swordsman is not given to quarrel.
Nothing is given as easily as advice.
The wine given to your workmen is that for which you get the best paid.
Having given your word, be strong; not having done it, try not to promise.
In wartime no sweets are given out.
Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell.
Wine is given to bring mirth not drunkenness.
That which should feed our children ought not to be given to dogs.
Much is expected where much is given. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1095)
Something given that way.
Language has been given to man for hiding thoughts.
A message is given to many, but those who are meant to understand, understand.
A clever head, but given to foolishness.
Treat the earth well: it was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children. We do not inherit the Earth from our Ancestors, we borrow it from our Children. We are more than the sum of our knowledge, we are the products of our imagination.
A guest should not cause his host's demise. When the guest is ready to leave, his host should not have given him a hunch-back.
A woman will not be given a leash.
Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell.
Treat the earth well: it was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children.
God has created us brothers but has given us separate purses.
Happy is the man to whom nature has given a sufficiency with even a sparing hand.
The cow is given a present when her calf is carried away.
If a counsel were a good thing, it wouldn't be given, but sold.
Never check the teeth of a horse that has been given by a wealthy landowner.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than sword.
Wisdom is the comb given to a man after he has lost his hair.
If something is given to you then take it, if you are beaten, then run away.
ask, and it shall be given you.
Nothing is so liberally given as advice.
Grasp all, lose all.
Give a clown your finger he'll grasp your fist.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
The responsibility of power is like holding an egg. Grasp it too tightly and it will drip through your fingers; hold it too loosely and it will drop and break.
Grasp all, lose all.
Grasp no more than thy hand will hold.
Grasp all, lose all.
Grasp no more than thy hand will hold.
A scribe who does not know how to grasp the meaning -- from where will he produce a translation?
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
The grasshopper which is always near its mother eats the best food.
A grasshopper that sleeps about will be soon awake in a lizard's mouth.
The restless grasshopper only finds rest in the gizzard of a bird.
Ride an elephant to catch a grasshopper.
The grasshopper flies about, but the kingfisher watches him.
A hungry man will thrust his fingers into a snake's hole in search of a grasshopper.
A restless grasshopper eventually ends up in a birds teeth.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The bird sings with its voice but the grasshopper sings with its thighs.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The cow must graze where she is tied.
A goose cannot graze after him.
Dogs bark and oxen graze.
Where the cattle does not graze, the warriors pass.
Even when a goat knows that it is being dragged to graze, it still resists.
A goat does not always graze in the same place.
The beadle's cow may graze in the churchyard.
Wait, steed, to graze on green grass.
A cow must graze where she is tied.
Gratitude is the memory of the heart.
The young magpie that pulls feathers out of his mother thinks that he is showing gratitude in that way.
Never confuse gratitude with love.
Swift gratitude is the sweetest.
If you do good to the devil, out of gratitude he will deliver you to hell.
Gratitude is the heart's memory.
Gratitude is the least of virtues; ingratitude is the worst of vices.
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their honey.
Gratitude of a donkey is a kick.
Gratitude is the least of virtues, but ingratitude the worst of vices.
Gratitude ranks as the least of virtues, and the lack of gratitude is the worst of vices.
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their – honey.
The way a donkey expresses gratitude is by giving someone a bunch of kicks.
She fries in her own grease.
To make the cart go you must grease the wheels.
You must grease the wheels if you would have the car run.
A scorpion never stung me but I cured myself with its grease.
Grease to the wheels.
You need not grease a fat sow.
It's the squeaky wheel that gets the grease.
You can't grease a "pig" so many times that he can't be greased one more time.
Elbow grease is the best polish.
If a fool has a lot of grease he will wipe it on his beard.
The squeaking wheel gets the grease.
You need not grease a fat sow.
To bait and to grease does not retard a journey.
One does not become great by claiming greatness.
Service is greatness.
Let no man glory in the greatness of his mind, but rather keep watch o'er his wits.
The first step toward greatness is to be honest.
Greatness is not achieved with violence.
The great tree chooses where to grow and we find it there, so it is with the greatness in men.
The greatness of man's male organ don't call it an hydro cell.
Greatness alone in not enough, or the cow would outrun the hare.
Greatness and beauty do not belong to the gods alone.
Greatness and beauty do not belong to the Gods alone.
The immature rice stalk stands erect, while the mature stalk, heavy with grain, bends over.
A man must put grain in the ground before he can cut the harvest.
Ants can attack with a grain of rice.
The giant tree grows from a grain.
Disgrace is like the grain of a tree trunk -- time makes it bigger instead of erasing it.
He who is desperate will squeeze oil out of a grain of sand.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
Supposing doesn't fill the grain basket; 'if' doesn't fill the larder.
A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft.
One grain does not full the granary, but it helps its companion.
A sack was never so full but that it would hold another grain.
A ragged sack holds no grain, a poor man is not taken into counsel.
Of evil grain no good seed can come.
Grain by grain the hen fills her crop.
A grain does not fill a sieve, but it helps its fellow.
Sharing a secret with a rogue is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying a grain in a bag with a hole in it.
Grain by grain, a loaf; stone by stone, a castle.
Birds align with grain, but not with the stick.
Rebuke should have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
If in february there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain.
If you want a crop for one year, grow grain; if you want a crop for ten years, grow a tree; if you want a crop for a hundred years, grow men.
A blind crow may sometimes find a grain of wheat.
The first bird get the first grain.
Kindnesses, like grain, increase by sowing.
Grain and graciousness grow on good ground.
It's the quiet pigs that eat the grain.
Grain by grain the hen fills her crop.
Even a blind hen can find a grain.
Every grain has its bran.
Even a blind dove finds a grain of wheat at times.
When there are lots of insects, look for a good grain year.
Too much rain makes the green grain fall over.
Water and sun make work, water and wind make grain.
You're bound to leave some grain when you harvest.
From the black earth there grows the finest grain.
Little grain have I collected from a mass of chaff.
Where there is no grain, this is a sign of vengeance turned towards a city. Where there are no reeds, it is the worst of all poverty.
Whether it is roasted or not, you should sprinkle the grain.
If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain. If you want 10 years of prosperity, grow trees. If you want 100 years of prosperity, grow people.
A stupid turtle-dove is sometimes surprised by night for wanting one more grain of castor-oil plant.
The torment of envy is like a grain of sand in the eye.
Fail to steal the chicken while it ate up your bait grain.
If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain.
Grain by grain, and the hen fills her belly.
Stone to stone – palace, grain to grain – loaf of bread.
A snowy year, means a good year for grain.
The miller has a fat pig, but I've no idea by whose grain it is fed.
Rebukes ought not to have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
Grain by grain, a loaf; stone by stone, a castle.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
Grass is greener in other pastures.
The grass may be greener on the other side, but it is just as difficult to cut.
The distant fields look greener.
The neighbour's meadow is always greener.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
The grass may be greener on the other side of the fence but you still have to mow it.
Greed will cause pain.
Even thinking about sexual pleasure has its roots in greed.
Greed lessens what is gathered.
Greed keeps men forever poor, even the abundance of this world will not make them rich.
Greed is eternal.
Beware of the vulcan greed for knowledge.
Deceit sleeps with greed.
A man's greed is like a snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
Greed loses what it has gained..
Greed and envy are good neighbors.
Greed takes birds from the sky and fish from the sea.
Silence is golden, speech is silver.
A girl with a golden cradle doesn't remain long in her father's house.
A golden hammer breaks an iron gate.
A wooden bed is better than a golden coffin.
What good is a golden gallows if they are going to hang you.
If speech is of silver, silence is golden.
Don't take a golden sword to cut a radish.
You can beat anyone if you have a golden slipper.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
Kill not the goose that laid the golden egg.
A golden bit makes none the better horse.
Build golden bridges for the flying foe.
The devil catches most souls in a golden net.
A golden ring can tie a man as tight as any chain.
The silent mouth is golden.
A golden plate is worth nothing to me when my blood is spilled on it.
A golden cage does not feed the bird.
The golden key opens every door.
To be silent is golden, to speak is silvern.
Not all the words that were ever uttered are worth weighing on golden scales.
Better an iron dictatorship than a golden anarchy.
Fish bite best on a golden hook.
An old mule with a golden bridle.
He that would make a golden gate, must bring a nail to it daily.
The frog will jump back into the pool, although it sits on a golden stool.
They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove they are right.
Bury truth in a golden coffin, it will break it open.
A golden handshake convinces even the most skeptical judge.
A good reputation is better than a golden girdle.
If it comes, it is golden; if it doesn't, it was made of grass.
Unity is equal to a thousand golden coins.
Not all shiny things are golden.
Speech is silver, silence is golden.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
The golden age never was the present age.
Silence is golden.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
A good handicraft has a golden foundation.
Speech is silver, but silence is golden.
Though you seat the frog on a golden stool, he'll soon jump off again into the pool.
He who would make a golden door must add a nail to it daily.
Love can turn a cottage into a golden palace.
The house of envy lies in the lowest hollows, golden, sunless, breathed upon by no wind, grim and filled full of inert chill, and lacking warmth, is always roiled in fog.
Silence is golden.
An iron peace is better than a golden war.
A golden bit makes none the better horse.
For the flying enemy a golden bridge.
A golden key fits every door.
For a flying enemy make a golden bridge.
Golden dishes will never turn black.
Golden dreams make men wake hungry.
When thine enemy retreateth, make him a golden bridge.
Even if a monkey wears a golden ring, it is and remains an ugly thing.
Golden hands, but a wicked mouth.
They put the nightingale into a golden cage, yet it still craved for its home.
There isn't a sword that would cut off a golden hand.
Love kills with golden arrows.
The golden ass passes everywhere.
When our enemy flies, build him a golden bridge.
What is an exalted position to a low fellow but a golden ring in a swine's snout?
He fishes well who uses a golden hook.
Not all shiny things are golden.
Talking is silver, silence is golden.
Kill not the goose that lays the golden egg.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
A golden key can open any door.
A golden key opens every door except that of heaven.
A second woman has golden thighs.
Speech is silver, silence is golden; speech is human, silence is divine.
A golden key can open any door.
The house of envy lies in the lowest hollows, golden, sunless.
A rain in May is golden.
Own children the good children, grandchildren the golden children.
Build a golden bridge for the fleeing enemy.
Kill not the goose that lays the golden eggs.
A goat thief came along and they put him in jail.
Speak like a parrot; meditate like a swan; chew like a goat; and bathe like an elephant.
He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow.
The goat must browse where she is tied.
The more the billy goat stinks, the more the nanny goat loves him.
If you enter a goat stable, bleat; if you enter a water buffalo stable, bellow.
Just because he harmed your goat, do not go out and kill his bull.
Because a man has injured your goat, do not go out and kill his bull.
Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat.
The sheep drinks but it's the goat that gets drunk.
If the goat says it will become a sheep, there will always be black spots on its body.
The goat says: "they bought my mother, not i.”.
The goat says: "where there is blood, there is plenty of food.”.
The goat says: "nobody willingly walks to his own death.”.
However high you lift the kid goat, you place it gently on the ground.
The goat says: "what will come has already come.”.
The wolf and the dog agree about the goat - which together they eat.
Fate can be taken by the horns, like a goat, and pushed in the right direction.
Shall the sheep go astray, they will be led by the ill goat.
When the goat goes to church, he does not stop till he gets to the altar.
When you see a goat you should always hit him, because he is either going into mischief or coming out of it.
A woman like a goat, a woman of rushing visits.
The lame goat does not take a siesta.
If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean.
A man with good judgment does not make the goat his gardener.
A prudent man does not make the goat his gardener.
Without driving even a goat would not go to the market.
A shy woman is worth a city, a shy man is worth a goat.
A goat owned by two people sleeps outside.
When will the goat be strong enough to kill a leopard.
The cry of the hyena and the loss of the goat are one.
The older the goat the tighter the rope.
The goat that has many owners will be left to die in the sun.
Lickle bit a ram goat have beard an' big dull noh have nun.
You're correct, but the goat is mine.
Better a goat that can give milk than a cow that cannot.
If you're short of trouble take a goat.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back or a fool from any side.
The impatient person eats goat; the one who hesitates eats beef.
The heart is like a goat that has to be tied up.
I paid a goat because I blaabed.
A particle of goat dung cannot be eaten by a large gourd.
A goat never grazes in the same place.
Dog eats excreta, but goat gets rotten teeth.
The goat is not big in a cow town.
What sweetens goat mout does burn e bottom.
The goat eats the grass there where it is tied.
It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
The goat that climbs up the rock also has to go down.
You don't give someone a goat for a gift and still hold on to the rope.
You can't order a goat to eat the hyena.
A man accused of stealing a goat should not entertain his visitors with goats meat.
When the big tree falls, the goat eats its leaves.
The always-hurrying person eats goat, but the one who takes his time eats beef.
Only a goat that is tired of life invites a lion to dinner.
The frowning face of a goat doesn't prevent it being taken to market.
Even when a goat knows that it is being dragged to graze, it still resists.
One doesn't call a hyena to displine a troublesome goat.
If you want to catch a black goat you make haste before it's dark.
A goat does not always graze in the same place.
A man and a goat can be friends but it would be foolishness for the goat to pay the first visit.
It's out of ignorance that a goat will attend a leopard's party.
The goat does not get fat just by whispering.
The man who wanted to milk the male goat failed.
Forget brotherhood, each goat will cost your seven dinars.
If the beard meant everything, the goat would preach.
Put silk on a goat, and it's still a goat.
If you put a silk dress on a goat, he is a goat still.
If you put a silk suit on a goat it is still a goat.
One scabby goat infects the flock.
A goose, a woman, and a goat, are bad things lean.
No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back, or a fool from any side.
Even on old goat likes to lick salt.
He confides the cabbage to the goat.
He likes it, as a goat likes the knife, that kills him.
Even an old woman may run when a goat carries her snuff-box.
If the owner of the goat is not afraid to travel by night, the owner of a hyena certainly will not be.
Look for a black goat while it is still daytime.
A good kid goat comes from a young goat and a good lamb from a strong sheep.
A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat.
For the very best, drink milk from the goat, ricotta from the sheep and cheese from the cow.
The wild pear has blossomed: the kid goat no longer suffers.
Vultures arrive at the place where the goat is slaughtered.
If the first goat goes lame, those that follow will not reach the pasture.
Never approach a goat from the front, a horse from behind, and a fool from either side.
By candle-light a goat looks like a lady.
No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger.
A clear conscience is a good pillow.
One does not look for good from good.
It is good to be visiting, but it is better at home.
If you wish good advice, consult an old man.
Hearing is never as good as seeing.
If women were really good, God would be married.
A good friend will fit you like ring to finger.
The fault of another is a good teacher.
Everyone thinks his own spit tastes good.
All things good to know are difficult to learn.
Cheese, wine, and a friend must be old to be good.
Learn good manners from those who don't have them.
Good things come to those who wait.
There is always a better man for every good man.
Having a good discussion is like having riches.
If you've done good, stay silent; if good has been done to you, share to others.
Good horses can't be of a bad color.
Listening to good advice is the way to wealth.
A good son makes a good husband.
All good things come to an end.
A good name is better than a girdle of gold.
The horse that arrives early gets good drinking water.
A liar should have a good memory.
Beware of the man to whom you have done a good turn.
Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
Good brotherhood is the best wealth.
Good fences make good neighbours.
A miss is as good as a mile.
What good is giving sugar to the dead?
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A book is a good friend when it lays bare the errors of the past.
A good deed is something one returns.
After bad luck comes good fortune.
Taking water from the same well doesn't make all the wives' gravy taste good.
One who sees something good must narrate it.
Perform good deeds; you will not regret them.
A good friend is better than a near relation.
Not all the trees in the forest make good firewood.
When the white man is about to leave a garden for good, he wrecks it.
A good deed will make a good neighbor.
When a king has good counselors, his reign is peaceful.
Cheap meat never makes a good soup.
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
A good archer is not known by his arrows, but his aim.
Bad is never good until worse happens.
A good name is a rich inheritance.
Words are good when works follow.
A good lie finds more believers than a bad truth.
Good luck beats early rising.
A man is often a bad adviser to himself and a good adviser to another.
A good servant makes a good master.
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
A ring on a good woman's finger is no good without a blouse on her back.
A good laugh and a long sleep are the two best cures in the doctor's book.
Thirsty men make good prophets.
If you can't be good, then be careful.
A small evil may be a great good.
Age brings experience, and a good mind wisdom.
A good bird begins chirping while in the egg.
I can only get better if I have good friends.
If he was any good, his name would be Kheirollah.
A rash man, a skin of good wine, and a glass vessel, do not last long.
Good management is better than good income.
Good table, bad will.
Hell is full of good intentions.
The good won't be spoiled in an inn, so the bad won't be mended in a church.
A good bark year makes a good wheat year.
Hunger drives good taste away.
At a good bargain pause and ponder.
Chastise the good and he will mend, chastise the bad and he will grow worse.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
One may have good eyes and yet see nothing.
A bad agreement is better than a good lawsuit.
Trust was a good man; trust-not was a better.
Everything is good for something.
Tis good feasting in other men's houses.
Do not always expect good to happen, but do not let evil take you by surprise.
One good punch on your enemy's nose, gives more pleasure than hearing well-meaning advice from your elders.
Don't praise my good fortune before i'm dead and buried.
The wise man's wealth lies in good deeds that follow ever after him.
Look for the good, not the evil, in the conduct of members of the family.
There is no book that contains absolutely nothing bad, and there is no book that contains absolutely nothing good.
Try to be in good company, even when you are alone.
Pray to God for a good harvest, but keep on hoeing.
A good horse has many faults; a bad one has hardly any.
Ugliness with a good character is better than beauty.
Bad news goes about in clogs, good news in stockinged feet.
Not all that glitters is gold.
If gold falls into the mud, it won't become bronze.
Not every glittering thing is gold.
Gold takes no rust.
Not everything that shines is gold.
Words are silver, silence is gold.
One written word is worth a thousand pieces of gold.
A good name is better than a girdle of gold.
All that glisters is not gold.
Under the mountains is silver and gold, But under the night sky, hunger and cold.
Gypsy gold does not chink and glitter, it gleams in the sun and neighs in the dark.
If the walls were adamant, gold would take the town.
A book holds a house of gold.
A mule laden with gold is welcome at every castle.
A woman is like the moon-some nights it is silver others gold.
A drop of wisdom is better than a sea of gold.
Gold bears more gold.
The lack of gold only a headache.
The same fire purifies gold and consumes straw.
Where gold speaks every tongue is silent.
Words are mere bubbles of water; deeds are drops of gold.
The rubbish we speak is like froth on the water, actions are drops of gold.
An ass is but an ass, though laden with gold.
Gold without wisdom is but clay.
A mother is gold, a father is a mirror.
Better a friend at court than gold on the finger.
All my goods are of silver and gold, even my copper kettle, says the boaster.
Though a cage may be made of gold, it is still a cage.
Though the cage be made of gold, it's still a prison.
Gold is a debt we can repay, but kindness not till our dying day.
The body pays for a slip of the foot and gold pays for a slip of the tongue.
Like a gold ring in a pigs snout is a woman without descretion.
Gold like the sun melts wax and hardens clay.
The truth is like gold; keep it locked up and you will find it exactly as you first put it away.
In a house of gold the clocks are of lead.
With gold you can make a road to heaven but it will end in hell.
Half an hour in a spring evening is worth a thousand gold pieces.
Giving gold coins to a cat.
He who has gold is served by the devil.
Even a fool knows the glow of gold.
May kabul be without gold rather without snow.
If it were not for eating, the back might wear gold.
There are three things that can destroy a preacher, the glory, the gold, and the girls.
Gold is the devil's fishhook.
Chains of gold are stronger than chains of iron.
An inch of gold will not buy an inch of time.
The sky does not rain gold or silver.
Even if the nightingale is in a gold cage, she still dreams of returning to the forest.
With houses and gold, men are rarely bold.
Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.
Gold may be bought too dear.
Women, fortune, and gold, favor fools.
Hares are caught with hounds, fools with praise, and women with gold.
That usury is a sin some hold, but take for granted they've no gold.
The morning has gold in its mouth.
Where gold avails, argument fails.
Whore or thief young or old, welcome so you've got the gold.
There is a crock of gold in the tomb of every chieftain, but they are all guarded by cats and fairies.
May God strike the rich man blind by his own gold.
Whether you were gold or satin, you're the same acanthus-seller.
A man of straw is better than a woman of gold.
I hate fetters though they be of gold.
A cage made of gold does not feed the bird inside of it.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
A gold ring does not cure a felon.
A man of straw needs a woman of gold.
Gold does not buy everything.
Gold is the devil's fishhook.
If you are sick, think about your life; if you are better, think about your gold.
Save three pieces of gold and the fourth one will fall into your lap.
A good name is better than gold.
Not all that glitters is gold; not all that is sticky is tar.
Sleep on a bed of silver and dream of gold.
Gold glitters even in the mud.
All that glitters is not gold, and all that is sticky is not tar.
Gold that falls to earth never dims.
Wrapped within rags might be gold.
A chameleon acquires gold.
A gold branch with a jade leaf.
Cover the back of an image of Buddha with gold leaf.
Everything that is yellow is not gold.
The best gold is supple.
Earth is dearer than gold.
Earth is more precious than gold.
All is not gold that glistereth.
Gold glitters in what is thrown away.
Every honest miller has a thumb of gold.
Gold and green woods.
He who cannot paint must grind the colors.
The mills of the gods grind slowly but they grind finely.
The mill does not grind without water.
He who comes sooner shall mill/grind sooner.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
The man who comes with a tale about others has himself an ax to grind.
A mill cannot grind with water that is past.
It is hard to sail without wind, and to grind without water.
The millstone that lies undermost also helps to grind.
The mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
The mill does not grind with water that is past.
Don't let the bastards grind you down.
The mills of god grind slowly, yet they grind exceedingly small.
A mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
The mills of God grind slowly, but surely.
The mill does not grind with water that is past.
Grind with every wind.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
While you still have light, grind the flour.
The first at the mill can grind the first.
The mill does not grind with water that is past.
If you are up to your knees in pleasure, then you are up to your waist in grief.
All things grow with time -- except grief.
He that conceals his grief finds no remedy for it.
Grief shared is half grief; joy shared is double joy.
Friendship doubles joy and halves grief.
Rather a piece of bread with a happy heart than wealth with grief.
Grief unspoken turns to poison.
Give the Goddess her due, even when her due is grief.
Grief itches but scratching it makes it worse.
He who laughs too much, is hiding his grief.
That grief is light which is capable of counsel.
The wrong-headed fool who refuses counsel, will come to grief.
Shared grief is half grief.
Do not rejoice at my grief, for when mine is old yours will be new.
Love, grief, and money cannot be kept secret.
This grief will prove a blessing.
It is better to eat bread with love than fowl with grief.
Grief is light that is capable of counsel.
Just as a medicine may not cure a serious illness, wine will certainly not dispel your grief.
Disputing and borrowing cause grief and sorrowing.
This dead person is not worth all of this grief.
Silence is a cure for grief.
Grief for a dead wife lasts to the door.
Grief pent up will burst the heart.
Grief for a dead wife lasts to the door.
Where there is no honour, there is no grief.
The person who thinks about his own grief forgets about the grief of others.
Grief for a husband is like a pain in the elbow, sharp and short.
All things grow with time, except grief.
It is a grief to one beggar that another stands at the door.
In youth, one has tears without grief; in age, grief without tears.
Those who conceal their grief find no remedy for it.
To give is honour, to love is grief.
Serve a lord and you'll know what is grief.
Much pleasure and little grief is every man's desire.
He assumes a cheerful countenance suppressing the grief which weighs heavily on his heart.
It is a solace to the miserable to have a companion in their grief.
The wrong-headed fool, who refuses counsel, will come to grief.
There are three things that refresh the heart and reduce grief.
Riches are gotten with pain, kept with care, and lost with grief.
Time and thinking tame the strongest grief.
You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather.
A wild goose never reared a tame gosling.
Feather by feather a goose is plucked.
A goose quill is more dangerous than a lion's claw.
Kill not the goose that laid the golden egg.
To give counsel to a fool is like throwing water on a goose.
A gosling flew over the Rhine, and came home a goose.
Sending the goose on a message to the fox's den.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
A woman like a goose, a sharp pecking woman.
A goose cannot graze after him.
Feather by feather the goose is plucked.
A market is three women and a goose.
Three women and a goose make a market.
The goose hisses, but does not bite.
Feather by feather the goose can be plucked.
A goose doesn't befriend a pig.
The goose is too small for two but too big for one.
Silly toad: planning a meal of goose!
A client twixt his attorney and counselor is like a goose twixt two foxes.
For every goose there is a gander.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
When the fox preaches to the goose her neck is in danger.
Three women and a goose make a market.
The goose that has lost its head no longer cackles.
A goose drinks as much as a gander.
When the goose trusts the fox then woe to her neck.
The goose that has a good gander cackles loudly.
When one goose drinks, all drink.
What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
A goose, a woman, and a goat, are bad things lean.
Three women, a goose and two women make a whole fair.
Goose and gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing.
He who gives a duck, expects a goose.
It is na mair pitty to see a Woman greit, nor to see a Goose go barefoot.
A good Goose indeed, but she hes an ill gansell.
Three women and a goose make a market.
It is a stupid goose that listens to the fox preach.
A chicken won't be grudged to a place a goose will come from.
When a goose dances, and a fool versifies, there is sport.
Goose, gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing. (Strauss, 1994 p. 104)
Kill not the goose that lays the golden egg.
For every goose there is a gander.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
Shall the gosling teach the goose to swim?
Three women and a goose make a market.
It is a good Goose that drops ay.
A neighbor's hen looks as big as a goose, and his wife as young as a girl.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
A goose is not a pig's friend.
Kill not the goose that lays the golden eggs.
One neighbor's fowl seems a goose to another neighbor.
A kopeck saves the rouble, and the rouble guards your head.
Fear guards the vineyard.
Who guards two termite hills, returns empty handed.
The person who guards himself will not be destroyed.
He who guards his lips, guards his life.
Fear guards the vineyard.
He guards it, him like his eyesight.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
He who guards himself will not perish.
Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still.
May your life be like a wildflower, growing freely in the beauty and joy of each day.
Growing rice gives you more than poetry will.
A palm tree growing in the shade will not bear ripe fruit.
To remain young while growing old is the highest blessing.
You've got to do your own growing, no matter how tall your grandfather was.
No matter how tall your grandfather was, you have to do your own growing.
Marry me forthwith, mother, for my face is growing wrinkled.
It is written in sacred scripture: where grass is growing you don't need fertilizer.
Growing old is no more than another bad habit.
The growing millet does not fear the sun.
When a bonsai stops growing, you know it's dead.
While the grass is growing the mare dies.
Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still.
That which got bent while growing when you straighten it, it breaks.
Do not walk behind us, we may not lead; do not walk in front of us, we may not follow; walk besides us, so that we may guide each other.
The sayings of the wise are like the sharp sticks that shepherds use to guide sheep.
You are my guide, my lord, and my master.
Reason is the wise man's guide, example the fool's.
A village that you can see in a distance do not require a guide.
The arrogant blind man picks a fight with his guide.
When the explorer is ready, the guide will appear.
Custom is the great guide.
Custom is the guide of the ignorant.
He that takes the raven for his guide will light on carrion.
You cannot get into Paradise without a guide.
The village one can see requires no guide.
The nose of him whose guide is a crow will never get out of the shit.
Let your heart guide your head in evil matters.
Logic is the cement of our civilization, with which we ascend from chaos, using reason as our guide.
Must guide by hands the tongue, said Ruovisto when he taught Oskari English.
The gravity of the earth is so strong that the old grey man walks crooked.
Soap is grey but it used to be white.
All cats are alike grey at night.
Having grey hair because of old age is not a shame.
Care brings on grey hairs, and age without years.
By night all cats are grey.
Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head.
He disappeared like a grey donkey in the fog.
What a sad bench it is that has never been sat upon by a grey beard.
Every kind of wood is grey when they are reduced to ashes.
He who swallows an old man vomits grey hair.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
Eternity has no grey hairs.
Grey hairs are death's blossoms.
Where all adulterers to wear grey coats, the cloth would be dear.
At night all cats are grey.
The head grey, and no brains yet.
By night all cats are grey.
Fools never get grey hair.
All cats are grey at night.
The grey mare is the better horse.
Fretting cares make grey hairs. (Strauss, 1994.
The wolf is beaten not for being grey, but for having eaten a sheep.
The grey mare is the better horse.
When candles are out all cats are grey.
All cats are grey in the dark.
The fox may grow grey, but never good.
E'ening grey and a morning red, put on your hat or ye'll weet your head; e'ening red an' a morning grey is a taiken o' a bonny day.
The crow blames the crow, both equally grey.
If men could see the epitaphs their friends write they would believe they had gotten into the wrong grave.
If you've nothing to do, dig a spinster's grave.
A dead man does not know where his grave is.
Our real grave is not in the ground but in men's hearts.
Better the grave than a slave.
He who eats when he is full digs his grave with his teeth.
Far from grave, no praying.
Who came back from the grave and told the story?
Equality begins in the grave.
A young wife is an old man's post-horse to the grave.
He who dies for the truth finds holy ground everywhere for his grave.
If you dig a grave for others, you might fall into it yourself.
The Hump is straightened only by the grave.
Don't cry at somebody else's grave.
He who digs someone else's grave shall fall in it himself.
The fly that has no one to advise it follows the corpse into the grave.
Man learns from the cradle to the grave.
When your own funeral is approaching, you don't pick and choose your grave diggers.
To-day stately and brave, to-morrow in the grave.
Honour blossoms on the grave.
What is learned in the cradle lasts to the grave.
A man who believes that he can do everything, let him dig a grave and bury himself.
A man's grave is by the roadside.
He that digs up a grave for his enemy, may be digging it for himself.
There will be sleeping enough in the grave.
Don't step over a grave or you will soon die.
If you don't know death look at the grave.
Heaven lent you a soul Earth will lend a grave.
Matrimony is the grave of romance.
The earth offers you a grave everywhere.
For each man produced by heaven, earth provides a grave.
The grave only calls those death loves.
A good man never stays in the grave forever, he always has chance to come back.
He that lives too fast, goes to his grave too soon.
The grave is our mother.
Every son of Adam keeps hoping until he is carried away to his grave.
The man and his woman is like the grave and its dead.
Seek education from the cradle to the grave.
Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave.
A marriage in later years sends a letter to the grave digger.
Death makes us equal in the grave but not in eternity.
He has already one foot in the grave.
He turns in his grave.
To the grave a pall, and that's all.
Your canine teeth can take you to the grave.
He's digging his own grave.
A beggar on his feet is worth more than an emperor in his grave.
Possession is the grave of pleasure.
Glutton: one who digs his grave with his teeth.
Hope gives strength and courage, and saves an otherwise dying man from his grave.
It is but a small merit to observe silence, but it is a grave fault to speak of matters on which we should be silent.
In life we are encompassed by regulations, in death by the mould of the grave.
Man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave. (Thomas Browne)
[Only] grave will cure the hunchback.
A fly that has no one to advice it, follows the corpse into the grave.
A dead body cannot urge over how it should be placed in the grave.
If you do not know death, look at the grave.
Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork.
Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave.
The grave is already dug and man still continues to hope.
What is learned in the cradle is carried to the grave.
As there is guilt in innocence, there is innocence in guilt.
Conscience betrays guilt.
A man who after his dying speech doesn't die, bears the same guilt.
It was blacksmith's guilt, but the gypsy was hanged.
The whip hits at the legs, not the guilt.
Guilt is like the footprint of a hippopotamus.
If the glacier perceives a headless army is clumsy, it feels a sort of emphatic guilt, I dare say.
Who makes excuses without being accused, shows his guilt.
Wine causes guilt.
A given excuse that was not asked for implies guilt.
An excuse is sometime more ugly than a guilt.
A chattering scribe's guilt is great.
A gypsy only tells the truth once in his life but he regrets it afterwards.
Gypsy gold does not chink and glitter, it gleams in the sun and neighs in the dark.
You don't kill a gypsy by cutting him in ten pieces -- you only make ten more gypsies.
Even if gypsy children are dropped from the sky.
Bargain like a gypsy, but pay like a gentleman.
Give a hungarian a glass of water and a gypsy fiddler and he will become completely drunk.
When given a kingdom, the gypsy asks: what about bread?
It was blacksmith's guilt, but the gypsy was hanged.
Every gypsy prises his own horse.
Gypsy gold does not chink and glitter.
He who is a parrot is green wherever he is.
Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face.
A stick one bends while it is still green.
The neighbour's lawn is green.
Without a green switch the ox and the donkey won't obey.
If you refuse to be made straight when you are green, you will not be made straight when you are dry.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
Wait horse for green grass.
On a green tree there are many parrots.
He who is not lazy shall get much green.
Times are not always the same; the grass is not always green.
He gets green light.
In a fire, both green and dry wood burn.
An old banana leaf was once young and green.
You don't throw rocks at a green mango.
Plantain ripe, can't green again.
Gold and green woods.
Don't pluck the apple while it is green; when it is ripe it will fall of itself.
Parrots are green everywhere; the idiot loses wherever he is.
The words of God are not like the oak leaf which dies and falls to the earth, but like the pine tree which stays green forever.
A stick one bends while it is still green.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
My uncle is sick, but the highway is green.
Stretch hide while it is still green.
The fangs of the green snake and the sting of a wasp don't really make poison -- that is only to be found in a woman's heart.
Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come.
If I keep a green bough in my heart, then the singing bird will come.
A green grass in the green snake.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
The fall of a dead leaf is a warning to the green ones.
Green leaves and brown leaves fall from the same tree.
If you dress in gold or silk, you are still the same green grocer.
Better walk unshackled in a green meadow, than be bound to a thorn-brush.
A green Christmas makes a fat churchyard.
A green Yule makes a fat churchyard.
Praise the ripe field, not the green corn.
He gets green way.
I have seen as light a green.
Thraw the wand while it is green.
The yew tree exists three hundred years: first green, then dry, then gone.
Green is the grass of the least trodden field.
Too much rain makes the green grain fall over.
If February isn't cold and rainy, the March landscape will be green.
The green twig is easily bent.
The green burns for the dry, and the righteous pay for sinners.
Wait, steed, to graze on green grass.
Green as grass.
He who is not lazy shall get much green.
Even a stone turns green if it does not move for a long time.
Distant hills look green.
Ye never saw green cheese but your e'en reei'd.
A young doctor brings a green churchyard.
Afraid of the enemies - don't be a border guard.
As long as the mouse keeps still you can be sure that the cat stays on guard.
No one can guard against treachery.
It is easier to guard a bushel of fleas than a woman.
Guard your mouth as well as you guard your chest.
A girl, a vineyard and a bean field are difficult to guard.
From those I trust God guard me, from those I mistrust I will guard myself.
Guard your honor from your youth, and your weapons once you've got them in hand.
A fortress on its guard is not surprised.
A guard dog cannot watch two homes at once.
Guard lest the eyes be bigger than the stomach.
Don't put the fox to guard the henhouse.
It is a bad hand that refuses to guard the head.
He who would seek revenge must be on his own guard.
It is not easy to guard the hen that lays her eggs abroad.
He sets the wolf to guard the sheep.
It is easier to guard a sack full of fleas than a girl in love.
The faulty stands on his guard.
He does not guard himself well who is not always on his guard.
Let the buyer be on his guard.
You trust the guard to a naked or unarmed man.
Don't let the wolf guard the sheep.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
Guard your tongue in youth.
It is more necessary to guard the mouth than the chest.
Shun the friendship of a lying man. Should you contract a friendship with him, be on your guard.
He who possesses many things is constantly on guard.
It is no fun to guard a house with two doors.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
Don't allow the grass to grow on the path of friendship.
When two elephants fight the grass gets trampled.
A deer tethered with a golden chain can escape to the forest to eat grass.
Grass grows on its roots.
A meal without flesh is like feeding on grass.
Bad grass does not make good hay.
People are like grass in the field: some blossom, some wither.
The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass.
Old oxen like soft grass.
If you find the residents of a place worshipping a donkey, bring the beast some grass.
Sitting quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself.
Do not put a grass turban on my head.
There as many ways of making a living as seeds of grass.
If you plant grass, you won't get rice.
When a lion cannot find the flesh to feed on, it has no choice but to eat the grass.
When elephants fight, it is the grass who suffers.
When an elephant eats and eats and still cries for more, it is the grass that will get embarrassed.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
A trodden path bears no grass.
Ox, keep to your grass.
Wait horse for green grass.
The tired mare goes willingly to grass.
Grass doesn't grow on a busy street.
It's the merry drizzle that makes grass grow fine.
Times are not always the same; the grass is not always green.
Each country's customs are different, just as each meadow's grass is different.
When it is spring time, the grass will even grow under a big stone.
With fortune on your side you can sow salt and harvest grass.
Where the army goes there is no grass.
When mother cow is cropping grass, her young one watches her mouth.
Dogs bark and cows chew grass.
Bad grass does not die easily.
What good is grass when the horse is already dead?
What good is horse when the grass is already dead?
It is written in sacred scripture: where grass is growing you don't need fertilizer.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
Grass grows not upon the highway.
Grass is greener in other pastures.
Soon grass, soon hay.
It will last out our time; if after us no grass grows, what does it matter to us?
If you see that a town worships a calf, then cut the grass and feed it.
Not every sweet root gives birth to sweet grass.
The grass torch that burns a bad house, also burns a good one.
If it comes, it is golden; if it doesn't, it was made of grass.
When two elephants fight it is the grass that suffers.
Even if you are cunning, you will not tie water up in a bale of grass.
It is the grass that knows where the snake goes.
The goat eats the grass there where it is tied.
Even if you are cunning, you will not tie water up in a bale of grass.
It is the grass that knows where the snake goes.
One who has been bitten by a snake, when he sees grass he he gets afraid.
Customers are jade; merchandise is grass.
When the tree dies, the grass underneath withers.
Grass fears the frost, frost fears the sun.
A green grass in the green snake.
No matter how hungry the vulture, it will never eat grass.
The grass may be greener on the other side, but it is just as difficult to cut.
When two elephants fight, it is the grass that gets trampled.
While the grass grows the horse starves.
While the grass is growing the mare dies.
The laggard cow gets the sour grass.
Out of a little grass comes a great ass.
Where everyone goes, the grass never grows.
Stand so much until grass grows under your foot.
No grass grows on a beaten road.
Snake in the grass.
Live, horse, and you'll get grass.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
After the rain the grass will grow; after wine, conversation.
There grows nae grass at the market cross.
The cow may dee ere the grass grow.
Grass does not grow on the nose of a thief.
Green is the grass of the least trodden field.
Don't harvest grass that you don't recognize.
The pit allows the grass to fall in.
I, the adhesive grass, will stick fast to you.
Cow's diets have never been sustained on grass grown in may.
Without wind, the ears of the grass do not move.
A plaster house, a horse at grass, a friend in words, are all mere glass.
Horse, don't die yet, grass is coming.
No grass grows on a beaten road.
Grass will not grow on a volcano.
The tallest blade of grass is the first to be cut by the scythe.
Grass doesn't grow on a busy street.
A snake lies concealed in the grass.
A bleating sheep eats no grass.
Wait, steed, to graze on green grass.
Better to be guilty in the eyes of men than in the eyes of God.
The silent are often guilty.
Running away makes you guilty.
A guilty conscience is a lively enemy.
Bad children? guilty parents.
He who is guilty has much to say.
If the defendant is silent the jury will think him guilty.
The locksmith is the guilty one, but the blacksmith hangs.
A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy.
He who cackled is the guilty party.
He is guilty who is not at home.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
If you say that he is guilty of ingratitude, you need say no more.
A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy.
He who is present at a wrongdoing and does not lift a hand to prevent it is guilty.
The prince is never guilty in his father's court.
Guilty conscience wont let the eddoes cook.
A guilty conscience feels continual fear.
A guilty dog always barks.
He declares himself guilty who justifies himself before accusation.
Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the "guilty” list.
He who has approved of wrongdoing is as guilty as he who has committed it.
He who is guilty believes that all men speak ill of him.
If the defendant is silent the jury will think him guilty.
Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the "guilty" list.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A guilty conscience feels continual fear.
Great talents mature late.
Alexander the Great was not very tall.
Great needs grow from great possessions.
How can swallows and sparrows know the thoughts of a great swan?
A little body often harbours a great soul.
One who prevades the great universe is seen by none unless a man knows the unfolding of love.
Great events may stem from words of no importance.
"with great pleasure,” says the boor, when he must.
Great mansions have slippery doors.
A small evil may be a great good.
Alexander the great wasn't tall.
Do well the little things now; so shall great things come to thee by and by asking to be done.
Pigs in the cold and men in drink make a great noise.
There is a great uproar made about the debt of a poor man.
Who dangles after the great is the last at table and the first to be cuffed.
He who in under cover when it rains is a great fool if he stirs.
The person who gets stuck on trivial prosperity will not attain great prosperity.
The world's Great Journeys begin with the first step.
A great ship asks for deep waters.
When the father has eaten too much salt in his lifetime, then his son thereafter will have a great thirst.
Great fools must have great bells.
Lenin's truth makes great strides all around the world.
A small gift is better than a great promise.
Mules make a great fuss about their ancestors having been horses.
Necessity is a great teacher.
Pretend you're in great danger, and you'll find out if you have any friends.
There is a great distance between said and done.
The wise man is great through his own merits.
Kif is like fire; a little warms, a great deal burns.
Learning expands great souls.
From little date seeds, great things are born.
In the world of books, the mind-set of the reader is of great importance.
A great affair covers up a small matter.
Better than a thousand days of diligent study is one day with a great teacher.
If a man be great, even his dog will wear a proud look.
Great deeds come from times of shortage.
If there were no elephant in the jungle, the buffalo would be a great animal.
A man who cannot tolerate small misfortunes can never accomplish great things.
One measures the towers by their shadows and great people by those who envy them.
When there are no great tigers in the deep mountains, even a monkey can become king.
A man who pays respect to the great paves the way for his own greatness.
The unknown is always great.
The way to avoid great faults is to b aware of little ones.
From small beginnings come great things.
Suspicion may be no fault, but showing it may be a great one.
A wise man is a great wonder.
A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool.
A poor man's debt makes a great noise.
It is a great point of wisdom to find out one's own folly.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
A little and a little, collected together, becomes a great deal; the heap in the barn consists of single grains, and drop and rop makes an inundation.
How great the grandfathers are, but how regretful what they left behind.
Experimenting is the great science.
It is dangerous to eat cherries with the great, they throw the stones at your head.
With great men one must allow five to be an even number.
Don't learn too much, Jack, else you must do a great deal.
Thrift is a great revenue.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
Revenge converts a little right into a great wrong.
Great things are done more through courage than through wisdom.
Great men may jest with saints.
Great men's servants don't think little of themselves.
Great minds think alike.
He that pelts every barking dog must pick up a great many stones.
He who prizes little things is worthy of great ones.
He who saves in little things, can be liberal in great ones.
Women and wine, game and deceit, Make the wealth small and the wants great.
"great cry and little wool,” said the fool, when he sheared a pig.
An inch is a great deal on a nose.
Every little frog is great in his own bog.
Great talk and little action.
The doorstep of a great house is slippery.
Time is a great story teller.
A buckle is a great addition to an old shoe.
A man with a loud laugh makes truth itself seem folly, Truth is great and will win out.
You are permitted in times of great danger to walk with the devil until you have crossed the bridge.
A society grows great when old men plant trees in whose shade they know they shall never sit.
Great abilities produce great vices as well as virtues.
Great birth is a very poor dish at table.
A small hatchet fells a great oak.
From great rivers come great fish.
A finger's length in a sword, and a palm in a lance, are a great advantage.
A little injury dismays, and a great one stills.
A great thrust of a lance at a dead Moor.
To give quickly is a great virtue.
To the mediocre, mediocrity appears great.
Where there is great love there is great pain.
At a great river be the last to pass.
A guest sees more in an hour than the host sees in a year.
Guest coming into house – God coming into house.
The first day a guest, the second day a guest, the third day a calamity.
The guest is always the prisoner of the host.
The life of a guest is seven days.
Money is like a guest: it comes today, leaves tomorrow.
Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days - then on the third day give him a hoe.
Every guest hates the others, and the host hates them all.
Spending your money with many a guest, empties the kitchen, the cellar and chest.
A guest should be blind in another man's house.
A guest sticks a nail in the wall even if he stays but one night.
A guest hammers a nail in the wall even if he stays only one night.
He who is a guest in two houses, starves.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
Guest and fish stinks at third day.
Even the most welcome guest is more than enough for three days.
A habit is first a wanderer, then a guest, and finally the boss.
A person is a guest for one or two days, but becomes an intruder on the third.
A guest, like a fish, stinks the third day.
If you are a host to your guest, be a host to his dog as well.
A guest has not to thank the host, but the host the guest.
The place of an uninvited guest is behind the door.
A guest mourner does not wail as though his heart is broken.
A guest is a gift, a thief a tragedy.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days; on the third day, give him a hoe.
Let the guest come so that the host may benifit.
The guest who seeks special attention muddies the host's tea.
The delicacy of the feast is the learned guest.
One guest does not trouble two hosts.
He who is not friendly towards a good guest will never have one.
It is the cloth of an orphan that is often given to the guest.
An unpleasant guest is as welcome as salt to a sore eye.
Let the guest go before the storm bursts.
The unbidden guest is ever a pest.
When the guest is in most favor, he will do well to quit.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
After three days the place of the guest is behind the door outside.
The place of an unbidden guest is behind the door.
An unbidden guest knows not where to sit.
It's fun to be a guest.
Every feast has its guest of honour.
A guest is like rain: when he lingers on, he becomes a nuisance.
A daily guest is a great thief in the kitchen.
An unsolicited guest is better than a solicited one.
If your guest becomes a cook, your larder will soon be empty.
A constant guest is never welcome.
A daily guest is a thief in the kitchen.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
A constant guest is never welcome.
A guest should not remain for ever a guest.
The prolonged visit of no guest is pleasant.
A guest should not cause his host's demise. When the guest is ready to leave, his host should not have given him a hunch-back.
A guest sees more in an hour than a host in a year.
A constant guest is never welcome.
A guest unwanted comes at meal time.
A guest and a fish start reeking on the third day.
A guest does not get the food he expects but what he's served.
One guest loves not another guest; the master of the house dislikes both.
Can't tell his ass from a hole in the ground.
The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree to the ground said he would praise himself if no one else did.
A man must put grain in the ground before he can cut the harvest.
The white man lives in the castle; when he dies, he lies in the ground.
Our real grave is not in the ground but in men's hearts.
Giving advice to the ignorant is like the rain falling on muddy ground.
When the bed breaks, there is the ground to lie on.
Plant rice when the ground is ready; pursue women when you feel passion.
If you lie on the ground, you cannot fall.
The house does not rest upon the ground, but upon a woman.
The dead to his burial ground, and the living to his fooling around.
When the earth is hot, the worm stays in the ground.
Do not waste your time looking for soft ground to drive your spade in.
Even the loftiest of mountains begins on the ground.
We are all flesh and blood of the earth and so will return to the ground as rotten maggot encrusted relics.
Any ground is good enough to be buried in.
Rained on ground hardens.
The winds may fell the massive oak, but bamboo, bent even to the ground, will spring upright after the passage of the storm.
However high you lift the kid goat, you place it gently on the ground.
No matter how high the squirrel jumps, it will eventually fall onto the ground.
Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
See the weakest fruit drops earliest to the ground.
When you throw dirt, you lose ground.
The best remedy against an ill man, is much ground between.
The corn that is taken to a bad mill. will be badly ground.
He who lies on the ground must expect to be trodden on.
Everyone is emperor on his own ground.
He who dies for the truth finds holy ground everywhere for his grave.
He got it from nature as the pig got the rooting in the ground.
The savage ox grows tame on strange ground.
Big in the words, small on the ground.
A spacious ground is the right place to demonstrate one's skill in wrestling.
No matter how beautiful the shoes are, they still have to go on the ground.
Who never built a house thinks that the walls grow out of the ground.
The seed waits for its garden or ground where it will be sown.
I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years.
Between two stools you come to the ground.
When a durian tree is already ripe and sweet, many of the durians will fall to the ground.
A hair casts its shadow on the ground.
If you gladly stoop to the ground don't be surprised if they trample over you.
The buttocks never mistake the ground.
The corpse of a bird does not decompose in flight, but on the ground.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
A bird flies high above and its funeral is performed on the ground.
The chakata fruit on the ground belongs to all, but the one on the tree is for she who can climb.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
If your part of the battlefield is covered with thorns, you do not leave your position and go to stand where the ground is good.
If a native of pemba can get a log he does not relive himself on the ground.ie nothing but the best.
Even a tower a hundred yards tall has still its foundations on the ground.
Even the highest towers begin at the ground.
An iron rod can be ground down to become a needle.
No matter how tall the tree is, its leaves will always fall to the ground.
He who holds somebody on the ground is holding himself too.
I don't sow ground nuts when the monkey is watching.
A bird may fly off the earth and land on an anthill, but it will still be on the ground.
A person who is always looking at the sky will never discover anything on the ground.
A strong man never stays long in the ground.
The bird is up in the sky but its eyes are on the ground.
Monkeys don't advise there young ones to be careful on trees they just remind them of the distance to the ground.
The worm that exposes itself on the ground is waiting for a lucky bird to devour it.
No matter how tall a tree might grow it will always shed its leaves on the ground.
Between two stools one falls to the ground.
He who has been bitten by a snake is scared of a rope on the ground.
Luck in the sky and brains in the ground.
No matter how high a bird can fly, it still has to look for food on the ground.
A ripe pear is more likely to fall in the shit than onto the clean ground.
Grain and graciousness grow on good ground.
The grace of God is found between the saddle and the ground.
A Haughty person will not even reach down to take his own nose if it had fallen to the ground.
He who builds on another's ground loses his stone and mortar.
He is ground between two millstones.
He that lies upon the ground can fall no lower.
A mouse that removes the palm-nut that turns out to be the bait of a trap, would already have known that the palm-nut does not ripen on the ground.
However hard a thing is thrown into the air, it always falls to the ground.
If you fail to take away a strong man's sword when he is on the ground, will you do it when he gets up?
Man is like pepper -- you only know him when you've ground him.
A bird that flies from the ground onto an anthill, does not know that it is still on the ground.
Though near be the stone to the ground, closer is the help of coivi.
Whoever sows on hard ground, needs good wishes and luck.
Don't sleep on the ground during those months that are spelled with an r.
Keep your feet on the ground and you'll lessen the pain.
Seed ground that has been fallow, not ground that has just yielded fruitfully.
Dark ground gives good bread; white ground is quickly tired.
No partridge scratches the ground in search of food for another.
He that lies on the ground cannot fall.
If you lie on the ground, you can't fall.
Men don't build on strange ground.
The falcon does not struggle when he is caught.
You are blaming the hawk, the falcon is killing the chickens.
He who has no falcon must hunt with an owl.
Though the heron flied high the falcon kills it.
A crow will never be a falcon.
Every man thinks his own owl a falcon.
Love makes the owl seem prettier than a white falcon.
Shoot a daw and a crow, and soon you'll hit a falcon.
Don't let the falcon loose until you see the hare.
A wise falcon hides his talons.
Every one thinks his own a falcon.
To go safely through the world you must have the eye of a falcon, the ear of an ass, the face of an ape, the mouth of a pig, the shoulders of a camel, and the legs of a deer.
To have "Heard say” is half a lie.
A falcon will not breed a dove.
If a falcon hunts mice he is worthless.
Failure is the mother of success.
The great question is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with failure.
A proud heart can survive a general failure because such a failure does not prick its pride.
To neglect one's ancestors would bring ill-fortune and failure in life.
The first pancake is always a failure.
Success has many fathers, while failure is an orphan.
One failure leads to another; so does success.
Defeat is not failure but trail is total failure.
The two hardest things in life to handle are success and failure.
Who is great in faith won't be small in failure.
Every failure teaches a man something, if he will learn.
Man learns little from success, but much from failure.
No good thing is failure and no evil thing success.
If the bread in the oven is a failure you lose a week; if the harvest is a failure you lose a year; if marriage is a failure then you lose a life.
From success to failure is one step; from failure to success is a long road.
There is only eight years between success and failure in politics.
Còcciula made by three is neither a failure nor a success.
Failure teaches success.
From success to failure is one step; from failure to success is a long road.
"He who does not go forward, loses ground." or "He who does not accomplish anything, is a failure/has shortcomings.”.
Consider the facts seven times before you suspect someone.
Facts are better than theories.
Facts are stubborn things.
Not speech, but facts, convince.
Facts are male, words are female.
Wise men talk about ideas, intellectuals about facts, and the ordinary man talks about what he eats.
The wise man looks ahead. The fool attempts to fool himself and won't face facts.
Those who judge before they know the facts will learn to shed tears.
If you close your eyes to facts, you will learn through accidents.
Bear witness to facts, not words.
I shall speak facts; but some will say I deal in fiction.
The cross in the chest, but the devil in the facts.
Martin H. Manser (2007). The Facts on File Dictionary of Proverbs. Infobase Publishing. p. 80. ISBN 978-0-8160-6673-5. Retrieved on 22 September 2013.
The loveliest of faces are to be seen by moonlight, when one sees half with the eye and half with the fancy.
Anyone can fancy his bed as a palace.
‘Every man to his fancy, and me to my own fancy,' said the old woman when she kissed her cow.
In spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to what the woman has been thinking all winter.
A little of what you fancy does you good.
Fancy requires much, necessity but little.
Every eye forms its own fancy.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.
Fancy surpasses beauty.
Fancy passes beauty.
Fancy kills and cures.
There is no bad food in a famine.
He who listened to the woman suffered famine at harvest time.
In times of famine no bread is stale.
Abundance does not spread; famine does.
Famine hides under the granary.
Night is followed by day, famine by abundance.
More die of food than famine.
Abundance does not spread; famine does.
People who have bread to eat do not appreciate the severity of a famine.
A pestilence follows a famine.
More die by food than famine.
People who have bread to eat do not appreciate the severity of a famine.
If you hold high office, the whole village will share your fame.
Common fame seldom lies.
All kinds of fame belong partly to others.
Common fame is seldom to blame.
Where'er an ass is crown'd to fame, both town and country bear the shame.
Who lends his lips to nought but blame, has in his heart no love of fame.
Fame lives on after death.
Various are the roads to fame.
Who can escape envy and blame, that speaks or writes for public fame?
The palace leads to fame, the market to fortune, and loneliness to wisdom.
Fame is longer than life.
Good fame is better than a good face.
Profit is better than fame.
Cattle die, kinsmen die, and so shall you die too. But one thing I know that never dies: the fame of a dead man's deeds.
He who sows virtue reaps fame.
The brave is known by his fame.
Some have the fame, and other card the wool.
Whoever pursues fame and greatness, they flee from him; whoever shuns greatness, it comes after him.
A cowboy doesn't ride a bull for fame he rides because he loves riding.
Though your fame is great, it is not good.
Falsehood is a nettle that stings those who meddle with it.
Falsehood is the darkness of faith.
Falsehood travels and grows.
Falsehood never tires of going round about.
Half-truth is more dangerous than falsehood.
From truth to falsehood there's a four-finger distance.
There lies often falsehood beneath a pretty skin.
On the hook of truth only small carp will bite; in the net of falsehood the big salmon are caught.
One falsehood leads to another.
Falsehood is the darkness of faith.
Better suffer for the truth than prosper in a falsehood.
Falsehood is the Devil's daughter, and speaks her father's tongue.
It is better to suffer for truth than to prosper by falsehood.
There often lies falsehood beneath a pretty skin.
A friend when in need is a faithful friend.
Know those who are faithful to you when you are in low estate.
There are three faithful friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
If you want a faithful dog start rearing him when he is young.
In peace be faithful; in war be valiant.
The unfaithful woman has remorse, the faithful one has regret.
A faithful friend is hard to find, remember man and keep in mind.
Your most faithful friends are your own hands.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
If the collective farm is wealthy, the farmer is happy.
An overcrowded chicken farm produce fewer eggs.
If you cure a monkey of its tooth ache its your maize farm that suffers.
Never let a friend lie in your sheep farm he might get hungry.
It is a bad hen that lays her eggs away from the farm.
He drives a good waggonful into his farm who gets a good wife.
"i'll go myself,” and "i'll see to it,” are two good servants on a farm.
It is a lazy man who says "it is only because I have no time that my farm is overgrown with weeds".
It's better to have ringworm than a farm and vineyard.
No matter how powerful a man, he cannot make the rains fall on his farm alone.
An elephant can never fail to carry its tusks.
Epigrams might succeed where epics fail.
You fail if you're afraid. Or brave, you may become a king.
Plans fail for lack of counsel but with many advisors, succeed.
To try and fail is not laziness.
If words fail no others will avail.
The man will surely fail, who dares delay, and lose to-morrow that has lost to-day.
Strive though you fail.
When all fruits fail welcome haws.
To try and fail is not laziness.
Friends and mules fail in hard trials.
If you rely on god, you won't fail.
If thy heart fail thee, why then climb at all?
If you cannot fail, you cannot succeed.
A child brought up where there is always dancing cannot fail to dance.
One follows bees will never fail to get honey.
He who likes to eat cows hump will not fail to grow fat.
One word let slip and four horses would fail to catch it.
The wind that carried the mortar will not fail to carry the pestle.
Evil prospers because good men fail to act.
If you fail to plan, you plan to fail.
To try and to fail is not laziness.
Friends and mules fail us in hard places.
When a man repeats a promise again and again, he means to fail you.
The Lord will not fail to come, though he may not come on horseback.
They who deserve honor, fail of it; and they who obtain it, do not deserve it.
He who fails to plan, plans to fail.
If you fail to take away a strong man's sword when he is on the ground, will you do it when he gets up?
The good that you fail to do is gone forever.
Limping justice ne'er will fail To hunt out the longest trail.
If doctors fail thee, be these three thy doctors--Rest, cheerfulness, and moderate diet.
You must act as if it is impossible to fail.
Fail to steal the chicken while it ate up your bait grain.
Strive though you fail.
The abbey does not fail for want on one monk.
He has fallen off the donkey, but has found a date.
When a man has fallen into the mire, the more he flounders the more he fouls himself.
Everyone makes firewood of a fallen tree.
When a single hair has fallen from your head, you are not yet bald.
Not even a God can bring back the leaves that have fallen.
Fallen blossom doesn't return to the branch.
Fallen blossoms do not return to branches; a broken mirror does not again reflect.
Rarely is a fight continued when the chief has fallen.
We might've fallen from the horse, but not from the honor.
Wait until the tree has fallen before you jump over it.
He made a pit and digged it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made.
From the fallen tree everyone makes firewood.
Many have fallen with the bottle in their hand.
A fallen blossom never returns to the branch.
A good bee never lands on a fallen flower.
To persecute the unfortunate is like throwing stones on one fallen into a well.
Fallen leaves return to the root.
A fallen lighthouse is more dangerous than a reef.
It's as if she's fallen off an elephant's trunk.
A Haughty person will not even reach down to take his own nose if it had fallen to the ground.
The diamond fallen into the dunghill is not the less precious for it.
He made a pit and dug it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made.
No man has fallen from the sky learned.
When the old man falls, don't laugh, the young have also fallen.
Mock not the fallen, for slippery is the road ahead of you.
Once you have fallen into the water, you're not scared of water any more.
He who laid a snare for me has fallen into it.
From a fallen tree, all make kindling.
While avoiding the smoke I have fallen into the flame.
When the tree is fallen, every one goeth to it with his hatchet.
Do not laugh at the fallen; you may find slippery roads ahead.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
As long as you are standing, give a hand to those who have fallen.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
When the tree is fallen every one runs to it with his axe.
Old sheep shouldn't dress in lamb's fashion.
Better be out of the world than out of the fashion.
When the gorse is out of bloom, kissing's out of fashion.
Entreat him in jackass fashion; if he won't carry the sack, give him a whack.
Men after the modern fashion, and asses after the ancient.
Better be dead as out of the fashion.
Better be dead than out of fashion.
Fashion is a tyrant from which there is no deliverance; all must conform to its whimsical.
The old man at home, and the young abroad, lie after the same fashion.
Fashion: a despot whom the wise ridicule and obey. (Ambrose Bierce)
Giving advice to the ignorant is like the rain falling on muddy ground.
Keeping from falling is better then helping up.
To stumble is not falling down but it is to go forward.
Eat before falling in love.
Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground.
After Falling, The ladder falls on you.
When one foot stumbles, the other is near falling.
Stumbling is not falling.
It befits the king to be liberal, for he is sure of never falling into poverty.
Only by falling do you learn how to mount a horse.
If you sleep under a tree, you can't prevent the leaf from falling on you.
Falling teaches us to walk safely.
Falling with the door into the house.
Colts by falling, and lads by losing, grow prudent.
There is nothing shameful in falling before a superior enemy.
Though a tree grows ever so high, the falling leaves return to its roots.
Everyone pushes a falling fence.
Going beyond is as bad as falling short.
To love that one who never loves you is like rain falling in the forest.
He who isn't around is never beaten by the falling tree.
Keeping from falling is better than helping up.
Ability will enable a man to get to the top, but character will keep him from falling.
When a man is falling, every saint pushes him.
When a tree is falling, every one cries, down with it.
It was needed as a Slovak glazier needed falling on his back.
Wise rats run from a falling house.
By falling we earn to go safely.
Who stumbles without falling makes a bigger step.
A drop hollows out the stone not by force, but falling many times. (original latin proverb).
Somalis don't say a false proverb.
There are such things as false truths and honest lies.
False hope kills more readily than bitter truth.
False ambition serves the neck.
One should do nothing with a false heart.
In every false step there is something good.
A false friend's tongue is sharper than a knife.
One who is false to her first oath will be false to her second.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
Alder fire, false fire.
You never lose a false coin.
A man that breaks his word, bids others be false to him.
A false friend is like a shadow their only with you when the sun is shining.
True friends are like diamonds, precious and rare; false ones like autumn leaves, found everywhere.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
An open enemy is better than a false friend.
There is many a fair thing full false.
Beware of false friends with wagging tongues.
The nimblest footman is a false tale.
If a poor man finds a penny, it is probably a false one.
Two false men to one traitor.
The rack can extort a false confession from the innocent.
False in one respect, never trustworthy.
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
False friends are worse than open enemies. Коварный друг опаснее заклятого врага.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
You never lose a false coin.
Beware of false prophets.
It's a fine sermon about fasting when the preacher just had lunch.
Long fasting is no economy of food.
It is easy for someone to talk about fasting when he has a full belly.
With a full belly it is easy to talk about fasting.
A guest will not know what fasting means.
Long fasting is no bread sparing.
It's ill speaking between a full man and a fasting.
A day of fasting is the eve of a feast.
Abstinence and fasting cure many a complaint.
He whose belly is full believes not him who is fasting.
Lang fasting hains nae meat.
Long fasting doesn't save bread.
From a praying young man, and a fasting old man, God preserve my cloak.
Friday pretexts for not fasting.
Italian devotion and German fasting have no meaning.
Ye're never pleas'd fu' nor fasting.
Who goes fasting to bed will sleep but lightly.
When on an unenjoyable walk, walk faster.
Nothing dries faster than tears.
A lion can run faster than we can, but we can run farther.
The youth walks faster than the elderly but the elderly knows the road.
Faster than an arrow.
Faster than lightning.
Faster than thoughts.
Hair does not grow faster by being pulled.
sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears.
Sleep faster, we need the pillows.
Satires run faster than panegyrics.
Life's battle don't always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
The young one always knows faster in the dark.
A lie can travel faster than truth.
Faster than the wind.
Have faith in a stone and you will be healed by it.
A person consists of his faith. Whatever is his faith, even so is he.
Doubt makes the mountain which faith can move.
Put no faith in a drunkard's prophecy, another man's dog, or the weather at any season.
Put faith in your own abilities and not in the stars.
Saying salaam is a sign of true faith.
Being clean is the half of faith.
Good faith is a seldom guest, when you have him, hold him fast.
love and faith are seen in their works.
Faith keeps the world going.
Faith in a lord, a cap for the fool.
Love's merchandise is jealousy and broken faith.
The priest's friend loses his faith, the doctor's his health, and the lawyer's his fortune.
Faith can move mountains.
It is in our work that we discover love and faith.
A people without faith in themselves cannot survive.
Let none put faith in the first sown fruit.
Never let what you don't know disturb your faith in what you do know.
Faith will move mountains.
Weave in faith and God will find the thread.
Faith moves mountains.
Effort will not counter faith.
Who is great in faith won't be small in failure.
Faith is that quality which enables us to believe what we know to be at least far out.
Faith is the vision of the heart.
Falsehood is the darkness of faith.
A proof of faith is obedience.
Faith begins where reason stops.
It's easier to lose faith than to find it again.
Those who betray their friends must not expect others to keep faith with them.
Pin not your faith on another's sleeve.
Cleanliness is out of faith.
The strength of the heart comes from the soundness of the faith.
Want and necessity break faith and oaths.
Only believe in the faith of a woman as you would believe in miracles.
Good faith stole the cow.
Faith has no eyes; he who asks to see has no faith.
Love and faith are seen in works.
Love demands faith, and faith firmness.
Have faith and God will provide.
Faith is salvation, not the wood of a ship.
The one who loses his faith will never be content.
What good is faith if you don't live by it.
Who don't keep faith with God won't keep it with man.
When bribery enters through the door, faith goes out through the chimney.
It is unclear who has money and who faith.
Words will not do for my aunt, for she does not put faith even in deeds.
He who lost his faith, has nothing more to lose.
Faith is action.
It's amazing what you can do when someone has faith in you.
Faith is the vision of the heart.
It's easier to lose faith than to find it again.
Falsehood is the darkness of faith.
A favor given to man is appreciated by none.
The favor of a man in power is like a summer shower.
To receive a favor is to sell one's liberty.
Kissing goes by favor.
Women, fortune, and gold, favor fools.
A favor to come is better than a hundred received.
Let's fight, let's fight, no one knows whom fighting would favor.
A righteous man by praise will render thee firm in favor and love.
Favor your own first, then others.
Never give thanks for a favor held back.
The first favor is a favor, the second an obligation.
To favor the ill is to injure the good.
A favor to come is better than a hundred received.
An ounce of favor goes farther than a pound of justice.
When the guest is in most favor, he will do well to quit.
Never give thanks for a favor held back.
The gift of the king is the nobility of the exalted; the gift of the king is the favor of governors.
Everything the house gets is by favor of the door.
If the farmer is poor then so is the whole country.
The farmer is a born philosopher, the aristocrat has to learn how.
The farmer grows the corn, but the bear eats it.
A healthy person who begs for food is an insult to a generous farmer.
A good farmer is know by his crops.
Sinews and big muscles do not make a farmer.
One cannot go back to the farmer from whom one borrowed seed-yams to plant to say that the beetles have eaten up the seed-yams.
There is no worse devil than a farmer who wants to be a gentleman.
If the collective farm is wealthy, the farmer is happy.
The farmer is one but those who eat fruits of his labour are many.
The farmer hopes for rain, the walker hopes for sunshine, and the gods hesitate.
Schoolmaster, stick to your books; farmer, to your pigs.
The corn is not choked by the weeds but by the negligence of the farmer.
The farmer feeds them all.
A farmer on his knees is higher than a gentleman on his legs.
Lime and lime without manure makes the farmer rich and the son poor.
When the cat and the mouse agree the farmer doesn't stand a chance.
When the fox licks his paw let the farmer look after his geese.
What the farmer does not know he doesn't eat.
A farmer does not boast that he has had a good harvest until his stock of yams lasts till the following harvest season.
A farmer does not conclude by the mere look of it that a corn is unripe; he tears it open for examination.
A farmer who would not work inside the rain and would not work under the sun, would have nothing to harvest at the end of the farming year.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a farmer too lazy to plant his field.
When the ripened ears are full and fall over, as if in sleep, the farmer awakens, that is to say, he begins the harvest.
Neither the baskets of the farmer nor the baskets of the abbey.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks, but a farmer dies of old age.
What the farmer doesn't recognize, he doesn't eat.
The field should be poorer than the farmer.
Hope sustains the farmer.
June damp and warm does the farmer no harm.
One who carries a pot of honey doesn't envy the sugarcane farmer.
Sleeping farmer gets a dreaming farmhand.
The educated man precedes the farmer. But when the rice begins to run short, it's the farmer who comes first.
A farmer should not ride the king's horse.
Handsome cats and fat dung heaps are the sign of a good farmer.
If you endeavour, the fate will favour you.
Everything goes by favour and cousinship.
Do me a favour during a rainy season and I shall do the same to you during the dry season.
Don't ask a man for a favour before he has had his lunch.
Favour will surely perish as life.
Riches and favour go before wisdom and art.
Favour and gifts disturb justice.
Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain.
A favour often costs more than what's hard-bought.
Without favour, art is like a windmill without wind.
To do a favour slowly is to begrudge it; to consent slowly shows unwillingness.
The favour of the great is not lasting.
Let the favour be repaid to him who repays a favour.
When we ask a favour, we say, Madam; when we obtain it, what we please.
"When in doubt, in favour of the accused". (Corpus Juris Civilis)
A prompt refusal has in part the grace of a favour granted.
To accept a favour is to sell one's freedom.
If the family is together, the soul is in the right place.
A deer is an elder to its family.
Even the dead in their family vaults enjoy being in large company.
Look for the good, not the evil, in the conduct of members of the family.
The one who first shuts up in an argument is from a good family.
When you return from a trip, bring back something for your family - even if it is only a stone.
When you come back from a long journey, offer your family something though it be only a stone.
He who abandons his family, God forsakes him.
Our caravan is our family, and the world is our family.
If you turn into a dog, be sure to choose a rich family.
You can't be the head of a family unless you show yourself both stupid and deaf.
A family tie is like a tree; it can bend but it cannot break.
Don't meddle with a family feud.
In a united family, hapiness springs up of itself.
If you act as good as you look, you'll never shame your family.
A small family is soon provided for.
He that has no fools, knaves, or beggars in his family was begot by a flash of lightning.
A family name is not cooked and eaten, one's life is the thing.
Even the maid has a family.
I never saw an oft-removed tree, nor yet an oft-removed family, that throve so well as one that settled be.
No family has no ugly member.
Dine with a stranger, but save your love for your family.
A man can't get rich if he takes proper care of his family.
Black sheep of the family.
A real family eats the same cornmeal.
The talker talks and causes death in his family.
Relations last longer when the family is in distress.
The members of the family are in distress, but the idols are worshipped.
A united family eats from the same plate.
Never allow family to stand in the way of opportunity.
Treat people in your debt like family... Exploit them.
The family that prays together stays together.
When the plough enters a house, so does the condition of the family become vile.
If I am in harmony with my family, that's success.
A real family eats the same cornmeal.
Marry the girl of a good family though she be seated on a mat, very poor.
When the head of the family dies, that family breaks up.
He who earns calamity, eats it with his family.
Duty knows no family.
If you become a dog, turn into the dog of a wealthy family.
One family builds the wall, two families enjoy it.
Nobody's family can hang out the sign, "Nothing the matter here.
A dog shows affection even to a poor family.
A family is like a thick forest, often from outside its dense, when your inside each tree has its own position.
You may choose your friends; your family is thrust upon you.
Thanks is poor pay on which to keep a family.
Can't have a family fuss without the whole town knowing about it.
Every family has a goodness of mercy.
Every family has at least one black sheep.
The knife of the family does not cut.
A princely mind will undo a private family.
There are misfortunes in almost every family.
Never speak of a rope in the family of one who has been hanged.
Like the seaweed that clings to each other after each passing boat separates them, so too a family will come together with the passing of each crisis.
Once a buffoon, never a good father of a family.
Family before Friendship.
A good horse is a member of the family.
When you come back from a trip bring something for the family.
Family must look out for family.
Public before private and country before family.
It is a poor family that hath neither a whore nor a thief in it.
Social good is what brings peace to family and society.
Family names are like flowers, they blossom in clusters.
Thanks is poor pay on which to keep a family.
The family is like the forest. If you are outside, it is dense.
There was already twenty in the family, so my grandmother had a baby.
When fate strikes physicians are useless.
Venture all; see what fate brings.
No fate is worse than a life without a love.
It is the fate of the coconut husk to float, for the stone to sink.
Such is the fate of the sheep: either shorn or roasted.
Each man must ride the road of his own fate.
Fate aids the courageous.
When fate throws a dagger at you, there are only two ways to catch it: by the blade or by the handle.
Experience is a comb which fate gives to a man when his hair is all gone.
There is no flying from fate.
the cure for fate is patience.
Fate throws fortune, but not everyone catches.
Fate and free-will both play an equal role in destinies.
Fate and self-help share equally in shaping our destiny.
If mind is clean, fate is good.
If you endeavour, the fate will favour you.
At birth your fate is written.
Let us go, where fate directs us.
You can't buy fate.
It is the fate of the great ones of this earth, to be appreciated only after they are gone.
If you really love something, your fate is in its hands.
The winds of the heavens shift suddenly; so does human fate.
All are architects of fate working in these walls of time.
Fate loves a rebel.
Great care is no defense against Fate.
In the presence of fate, the physician becomes a fool.
It is not the bullet that kills you, it is fate.
A person must stand very tall to see their own fate.
It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate.
The fate of the gypsy's horse.
Fate sends almonds to toothless people.
You can't escape your fate [even] with a horse.
Fate can't be avoided.
Even immortals are not immune to fate.
Today's beneficiary is the incarnation of his preexisting well-doer; the fate of one's next existence lies in his existence today.
The future is not set, there is no fate but what we make for ourselves.
Everyone's the blacksmith of their own fate.
Everyone's the blacksmith of their own fate...Mindenki a maga szerencséjének kovácsa.
Thanks to the word of his personal god, the fate of the man who speaks just words is favourable, and he is with him throughout the day.
No flying from fate.
Listen to all, 'plucking a feather from every passing goose,' but follow no one absolutely.
You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather.
Who cares about every little feather should not make the bed.
Phoenix feather and unicorn horns.
Feather by feather a goose is plucked.
Feather by feather the goose is plucked.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Feather by feather the goose can be plucked.
Rooster today, feather duster tomorrow.
Duty is heavy as a mountain but
Death is lighter than a feather.
What is lighter than a feather? The wind! Lighter than the wind? The spirit! Lighter than the spirit? The woman! Lighter than the woman? Nothing at all!
A feather is just a delicate thing when removed from a bird because it carries the bird everywhere in the world.
A friend won with a feather can be lost with a straw.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Humour, to a man, is like a feather pillow. It is filled with what is easy to get but gives great comfort.
A piece of bread in the pocket is better than a feather in the hat.
A piece of bread in your pocket is better than a feather in your hat.
Better bread in the basket than a feather in your cap.
Give assistance, and receive thanks lighter than a feather: injure a man, and his wrath will be like lead.
Duty is weightier than a mountain, while death is lighter than a feather.
Do not make a hen out of a feather.
Birds of a feather flock together.
When February comes, hobnail your shoes.
February fill dyke, be it black or be it white.
February may be short but it's the worst month.
If in february there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain.
February has seven hats.
In february, don't postpone a trip.
If it isn't wintry in January then expect the worst in February.
If February isn't cold and rainy, the March landscape will be green.
If you don't want to be deceived, then marry on February 30th.
Make happy those who are near, and those who are far will come.
If the heart is right, the head cannot be very far wrong.
The pear does not fall far from the tree.
Stealing may bring profit, but hanging costs far more.
The mountains are never so far apart but the animals find one another.
Pride goes only as far as one can spit.
The voice of a poor man does not carry very far.
Distracted by what is far away, he does not see his nose.
He can see a louse as far away as china but is not aware of an elephant on his nose.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
Hills far away are green but they often have sour bottoms.
‘so near and yet so far,' said the man when the bird lit on his gun.
When a heifer is far from home she grows longer horns.
Go as far as you can see, and when you get there you'll see further.
Virtue never goes far without the company of idleness.
One enemy is too many; 100 friends are far too few.
The church is near, but the way is icy. The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully.
Fat geese don't fly far.
He who is near the church is often far from God.
No matter how far you have gone on a wrong road, turn back.
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
Good comes from far away; evil is close at hand.
One day of rain far surpasses a whole year of drought.
The dog says: "master, my life is far too good, hurt me in the tail.”.
Too far for jackals? no worthwhile tree here.
Far from grave, no praying.
When you run alone, you run fast. When you run together, you run far.
The cabin of a loved one is never too far away.
Keep women far away from song, because it is a summons to adultery.
A roan horse and a black can travel equally far in a day's journey.
A bad brother is far better than no brother.
On earth it's hard and heaven is far away.
He who is being carried does not realize how far the town is.
He who is carried on another's back does not appreciate how far off the town is.
Fair and softly goes far in a day.
Thinking is very far from knowing.
Those far, far away are seldom seen for what they really are.
A light burden's heavy if far borne.
Offend one monk, and the lappets of all cowls will flutter as far as Rome.
A hen is heavy when carried far.
Slowly one goes far.
The news of a good deed travels far, but the news of a bad one travels even farther.
He runs far who never turns.
He who goes slowly goes safely and goes far.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
A bow that is bent too far will break.
One bird in hand is better far Than two that in the bushes are.
However far the stream flows, it never forgets its source.
A man does not wander far from where his corn is roasting.
The man being carried does not realize how far away the town really is.
The church is nearby, God is far away.
With the intellect of another you won't get very far.
Chip neber fly far from de block.
He who rows goes far.
Avoid doctors and always keep them far away.
The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully.
God sits on high and he sees far.
If you reach for something that is far too good for you, it is not going to end well.
Step by step one goes far.
Even things that are far apart can meet as one.
The church is near but the road is icy; the bar is far away but I'll walk carefully.
If you think the worst, you won't be far wrong.
Home is not far away when you are alive.
A good name reaches far but a bad one reaches farther.
If you like what you are doing, nothing is too far and no job is too hard.
Alone a youth runs fast, with an elder slow, but together they go far.
A man who has his feet hacked off cannot scurry far.
If your corn field is far from your home, the birds will eat your corn.
If your cornfield is far from your house, the birds will eat your corn.
The more you ask how far you have to go, the longer your journey seems.
A splinter doesn't land far from the trunk.
God is high above, and russia is far away.
Step by step one goes very far.
De berry don' drop too far from de tree.
Men and women are never placed too far apart to be near.
Beautiful roads never go far.
Far waters cannot quench near fires.
Water from far away is no good for a fire close by.
Better be kind at home than burn incense in a far place.
Better a calamity to be far away.
He who betrays you is not one from far away.
He who is close to you knows more about you than he who is far away.
If your cornfield is far from your house, the birds will eat your corn.
No matter how far you are from your house, you will keep going until you get home.
You wouldn't know how far the town is if you've been taken there.
Where there is a frog, the snake is not far away.
Those who walk slowly reach a far, hence to hurry is not worth.
You can get far with a lie, but not come back.
The well fed person doesn't understand the hungry one.
Communism is a cow of many; well milked and badly fed.
Cow of many - well milked and badly fed.
You can only be honest if you are well fed.
He that gapes until he be fed, well may he gape till he be dead.
F air words never fed a friar.
Even if fed milk, a snake will still emit poison.
A dog returns to where he has been fed.
The fed hound never hunts.
Do not eat before you have fed your animal.
We are born to be our own, and not fed to it.
The fed baby plays on its mother's bed.
A table is not blessed if it has fed no scholars.
Well fed but ill taught.
The nightingale can't be fed by fables.
Give one fish and he's fed for only a day.
The miller has a fat pig, but I've no idea by whose grain it is fed.
Weeping washes the face.
If you spit in the face of a coward he'll tell you that it's raining.
He who slaps himself on the face should not cry ouch.
A pretty face and fine clothes do not make character.
A man says his word to the face.
His face would hang him.
The wife carries the husband on her face; the husband carries the wife on his clothes.
he keeps her/his face red with slaps.
You cannot strike a face that is smiling.
A smiling face is half the meal.
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
He who hurts his nose, hurts his face.
Blessings on him that said, Face about.
There is no better mirror than the face of an old friend.
He who spits in the air will have it fall back on his face.
For the bad weather, a cheerful face.
For news of the heart, ask the face.
For news of the heart, ask the face.
You will not dare mistreating the face you see in the morning.
The tears running down your face do not blind you.
He who eats well is able to face an army.
Ashes always fly back in the face of him who throws them.
Better to see the face than to hear the name.
A letter from the heart can be read on the face.
A man with a sour face should not open a shop.
In the eyes of a lover a pock-marked face is one with pretty dimples.
Jizo's face when borrowing; emma's face when repaying.
A face that never laughs betrays an evil heart.
Smack a tray of water and you get to wash your face.
If there is only bread and onions, still have a happy face.
If you want to smear somebody's face with mud, be prepared to dirty your hands.
A beautiful face is a letter of recommendation.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
Better face a danger once than be always in fear.
The joy of the heart makes the face fair.
Truth has a scratched face.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
A welcome is a debtor's face.
I see by my daughter's face when the devil lays hold of my son-in-law.
Marry me forthwith, mother, for my face is growing wrinkled.
The envious man's face grows lean and his eye swells.
He who speaks to your face is not a traitor.
Have an open face, but conceal your thoughts.
Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them.
Mountain does not meet mountain, but a face meets another face.
He who follows his wife's advice will never see the face of god.
Han'some face and good luck don' trabble de same pass.
A curse turns around and strikes the one who uttered it in the face.
Who celebrates all holidays will face all hungers.
Roof tiles are positioned to face downwards so that husbands and wives can be left alone.
Who doesn't approach with disbelief, won't see the face of paradise.
A brave man is scared of a lion three times: first when he sees the tracks; second when he hears the first roar; and third when they are face to face.
Better an honest slap in the face than an insincere kiss.
A big nose never spoiled a handsome face.
If your face skewed, don't blame the mirror.
A devotee's face, and a cat's claws.
Each of us must face our own responsibilities.
One has to face fear or forever run from it.
If you spit against the wind, you spit in your own face.
He who spits towards the sky is spitting on his face.
A warrior does not let a friend face danger alone.
The klingon who kills without showing his face has no honor.
The diamond in your belly sparkles on your face.
The back of one door is the face of another.
Don't cut off ya nose to spite ya face.
The wise man looks ahead. The fool attempts to fool himself and won't face facts.
A bee stinging a crying face.
A rosy face in the morning, white bones in the evening.
A buddha's face when asked three times.
Even the Buddha's face, only until the third.
Good luck in business is like the froth on an ox's face.
To scrape the light off one's face.
To know another is not to know that person's face, but to know that person's heart.
Don't hit one on the face.
Many a good face is under a ragged hat.
The ungrateful son is a wart on his father's face; to leave it is a blemish, to cut it off is pain.
The ungrateful son is like a wart on his father's face; to leave it there is unsightly, to cut it off is painful.
A stern look is not a slap in the face.
Ashes will always blow back into the face of the thrower.
Don't look at the visitor's face but at his stomach.
Sometimes the face can tell what the lips can't say.
The frowning face of a goat doesn't prevent it being taken to market.
Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them.
Affectation is a greater enemy to the face than smallpox.
The ass knows in whose face he brays.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
A man without a smiling face must not open a shop.
Let's face the facts and get at the root of trouble.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
Faint heart ne'er won fair lady.
All is fair in love and war.
A day after the fair.
Will he nill he, the ass must go the fair.
Under fair words beware of fraud.
Fair play's a jewel.
Fair money can cover much that's foul.
If you wait, there will come nectar - like fair weather.
All is fair in love and golf.
Turnabout is fair play.
Fair and softly goes far in a day.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
A fair booty makes a fair thief.
A fair death honors the whole life.
A fair wife and a frontier castle breed quarrels.
Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit.
Take heed is a fair thing.
your words are fair,” said the wolf, "but I will not come into the village.
Fair flowers to not remain long by the wayside.
Fair words don't fill the pocket.
Fair hair may have foul roots.
Sell me dear, and measure me fair.
A fair day in winter is the mother of a storm.
Often a troll-woman is under fair skin, and virtue under dark hair.
Who goes to the fair without money, goes with one problem and returns with three.
Give and take is fair play.
The words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village.
After rain comes fair weather.
All is well: for if the bride has not fair hair, she has a fair skin.
He gapes like a clown at a fair.
To every bird its nest seems fair.
After a storm fair weather, after sorrow joy.
After a storm comes fair weather, after sorrow comes joy.
A blustering night, a fair day follows.
All is fair in love and war.
By fair means or foul.
It's fair that he who tried to steal yours, loses his.
St. Swithin's Day, if thou dost rain, for forty days it will remain; St. Swithin's Day, if thou be fair, for forty days 'twill rain no more.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
A fair daughter's father has no ears.
The peacock hath fair feathers, but a foul voice.
So lovers, to their fair one fondly blind, E'en on her ugliness with transport gaze.
When the candles are all out, all women are fair.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
Fair words butter no cabbage.
In fair weather prepare for foul.
Speak fair, think what you will.
We can be deceived by fair appearance.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
Give and take is fair play.
Far fowls have fair feathers.
All are not friends who speak one fair.
More fair than scales.
A fair skin often covers a crooked mind.
Deceit is in haste, but honesty can wait a fair leisure.
It is only the blind who ask why they are loved who are fair.
A fair face will get its praise, though the owner keep silent.
Fair words won't fill the sack.
A fair exchange brings no quarrel.
A fair exchange is no robbery.
A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair.
Falseness often lurks beneath fair hair.
Speak fair, and think what you will.
Praise a fair day at night.
All's fair in love and war.
Three women, three geese, and three frogs, make a fair.
Fair and softly goes far in a day.
Fair feathers make fair fowls.
Fair flowers do not remain long by the wayside.
All that's fair must fade.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Fair promises bind fools.
Fair words won't feed a cat.
Fair words, but look to your purse.
Three women, a goose and two women make a whole fair.
Fair words are not enough to an empty belly.
A fair face, foul heart.
A fair woman without virtue is like palled wine.
When the candles are out, all women are fair.
The peacock hath fair feathers, but foul feet.
The heart's mirth does make the face fair.
Fair is not fair, but that which pleases.
Fair words break no bones.
Foul water as soon as fair will quench hot fire.
Sodom apples outwardly fair, ashes at the core.
He that has a white horse and a fair wife never wants trouble.
There is many a fair thing full false.
If gold falls into the mud, it won't become bronze.
The fruit falls not far from the stem.
A horse has four legs, yet it often falls.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
The twig that falls in the water will never become a fish.
When the water rises, the fish eat the ants; when the water falls, the ants eat the fish.
When the sky falls down, the earth shall melt.
When a dead tree falls, the woodpeckers profit from his death.
When the rain falls in the valley, the hill gets angry.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
He who digs a pit for others falls into it himself.
For crystal rain falls from black clouds.
Learn to stand up where one falls.
The poor fool is a man who falls on his back and breaks his nose.
Even if the sky falls on you, there is a hole that you can escape from.
When the tree falls, any child can climb it.
Rain falls on everyone, but one person gets wetter than the rest.
When the child falls the mother weeps; when the mother falls the child laughs.
An ember burns where it falls.
If a dead tree falls, it carries with it a live one.
Evil falls on him who goes to seek it.
A young crocodile does not cry when he falls in the water.
When your neighbor's horse falls into a pit, you should not rejoice at it, for your own child may fall into it too.
No snowflake ever falls in the wrong place.
As the camel falls to its knees, more knives are drawn.
The rain falls on only one roof.
He who falls victim to his enemies can expect no mercy.
After Falling, The ladder falls on you.
Whether the knife falls on the melon or the melon on the knife, the melon suffers.
A ripe melon falls by itself.
When there is a misunderstanding between the left leg and right leg the entire body falls down.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Where the lion's skin falls short, borrow of the fox.
As a tree falls, so shall it lie.
Truth stands when everything else falls.
He who falls today. may rise tomorrow.
The apple falls on the head that's under it.
When the sky falls, we'll all catch larks.
A tree falls the way it leans.
The fox falls into the trap only once.
The fox that waits until the chicken falls from the perch dies from hunger.
A horse falls though he has four legs.
No pear falls into a shut mouth.
It is not necessary to fish up every bucket that falls into the well.
When ill-luck falls asleep let nobody wake her.
When the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox.
Who throws a stone at the sky, it falls back on his head.
As the tree falls, it will lie.
He who digs a pit for someone else, often falls into it himself.
Gold that falls to earth never dims.
Through falls and stumbles, one learns to walk.
A tree falls the way it leans.
When one chief falls, another rises.
Escaping from the smoke he falls into the fire.
He that stumbles and falls not, mends his pace.
The old bear falls into the old trap.
Love has its own language, but marriage falls back on the local dialect.
Rain falls alike on the just and the unjust.
Who falls in the water will hold on to the foam to save himself.
He that falls to-day may be up again to-morrow.
No matter how much snow falls, it won't remain there all the way till summer.
Between two stools one falls to the ground.
The pot of water falls from your head when you have just reached the door of your homestead.
The withered tree will destroy the healthy tree when it falls down.
Fortune is like a wall that falls on those who lean on it.
The words of God are not like the oak leaf which dies and falls to the earth, but like the pine tree which stays green forever.
Fowls will not spare a cockroach that falls in their midst.
The rain falls upon the just and the unjust.
An udara fruit that falls by the roadside must want to be picked up and eaten.
An udara fruit that falls on the side of the road is asking to be eaten.
The hurrying fly falls into the milk.
It is mysterious if a baboon falls from a tree.
A beautiful woman who is pleasing to men is good only for frightening fish when she falls into the water.
A just man falls seven times, and rises up again.
Ripe fruit falls by itself, but it does not fall into your mouth.
Who arrives in the darkness departs as night falls.
Monkeys must disperse once their tree falls.
A fly that falls on your wound is more important.
Where the rain falls there is no hunger.
When the big tree falls, the goat eats its leaves.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
He who falls, teaches others a lesson.
The bigger the tree, the harder she falls.
Who spits against the wind, it falls in his face.
Between two stools one falls to the ground.
Break one link and the whole chain falls apart.
When the tree falls every one runs to gather sticks.
Turn your face to the sun and the shadows fall behind you.
One who runs will also fall.
Fall seven times, stand up the eighth.
It is bad luck to fall out of a thirteenth story window on Friday.
Make sure to be in with your equals if you're going to fall out with your superiors.
The pear does not fall far from the tree.
If you fall in love let her be a beauty; if you should steal, let it be a camel.
Remember, even monkeys fall out of trees.
The nuts from a palm tree don't fall without dragging a few leaves with it.
Fear to let fall a drop, will always make you spill a lot.
Rain does not fall on one roof alone.
The devil places a pillow for a drunken man to fall upon.
Don't fall before you're pushed.
A stumble may prevent a fall.
A bolt does not always fall when it thunders.
When the apple is ripe it will fall.
If you fall into a pit, Providence is under no obligation to come and look for you.
The mud that you throw will fall on your own head.
Bitter fruit will fall before the ripe.
The roses fall, the thorns remain.
If you lie on the ground, you cannot fall.
Rejoice not at thine enemy's fall”–but don't rush to pick his up, either.
What you build easily will fall quickly.
Between two stools, you fall to the ground.
Women are like raindrops: some fall on palaces, others on ricefields.
If a man knew where he would fall, he would spread straw there first.
Hew not too high, lest a chip fall in thine eye.
Our time runs on like a stream; first fall the leaves and then the tree.
Pride comes before a fall.
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
He who spits in the air will have it fall back on his face.
Pride goes before a fall.
To love someone who does not love you is like shaking a tree to make the dew drops fall.
They only fall asleep after having mutually taken an oath and then they betray each other.
If a man looks upon your wife pluck out his eye and cook it in a goodly stew. If he eats the stew his manhood will wither and fall off in the next moon.
If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
If the State is going to fall, it is from the belly.
Those who digs an evil hole will fall into it.
Even the fall of a dancer is a somersault.
When your neighbor's horse falls into a pit, you should not rejoice at it, for your own child may fall into it too.
Can a mouse fall in love with a cat?
He who digs a pit will fall into it himself.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight.
People who are asleep can't fall down.
Even monkeys fall from trees.
If you are going to fall it's muddy everywhere.
The heaviest rains fall on the house that leaks most.
If heaven above lets fall a plum, open your mouth.
The tongue is soft but constantly remains; the teeth are hard yet they fall out.
No matter how high the squirrel jumps, it will eventually fall onto the ground.
As the dog said, ‘If I fall down for you and you fall down for me, it is playing.'
If you don't stand for something, you will fall for something.
If you are digging a pit for your enemy, don't make it too deep, for you may fall into it.
United we stand, divided we fall.
He who grasps too much lets much fall.
Who avoids small sins, does not fall into great ones.
If you dig a grave for others, you might fall into it yourself.
Don't be too friendly with the clergy and don't fall out with them.
A house divided will soon fall.
Be kind to those that meet you as you rise, you may pass them again as you fall.
It is not enough for a man to know how to ride; he must know how to fall.
He who digs someone else's grave shall fall in it himself.
He who will not climb will not fall.
He who does not climb, will not fall either.
To fall out of the frying-pan into the fire.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Cunning men's cloaks sometimes fall.
Even an ass will not fall twice in the same quicksand.
He that stands may fall.
He who climbs to high is near a fall.
If the blind lead the blind, both fall into the ditch.
They who shun the smoke often fall into the fire.
The one who sits on the ground need not fear a fall.
If a blind man leads another, they both fall together.
Save three pieces of gold and the fourth one will fall into your lap.
He that lies on the floor doesn't fall down.
The young laugh when the old fall.
A fall bodes a lucky journey from the house but not toward it.
When you fall behind, you eat dust.
Don't raise your club so high; it will only fall on your head.
You do not fall because you are weak; you fall because you think you are strong.
He that abideth low cannot fall hard.
Men that crawl, never fall.
The higher the mountain the lower the valley, the taller the tree the harder the fall.
If the sky were to fall we should catch plenty of larks.
When a durian tree is already ripe and sweet, many of the durians will fall to the ground.
In a very critical situation as the egg will soon tip-over and fall.
Would I know where I'd fall, I'd lay some straw there ahead of time.
No one likes to eat crumbs from a feast; everyone likes to sit at the table.
The heart at rest sees a feast in everything.
There is a fool at every feast.
More festive than the feast itself is the day before.
One cannot both feast and become rich.
There is no feast till a roast and no torment till a marriage.
When the ass was invited to the wedding feast he said, "They need more wood and water."
Every one speaks of the feast as he finds it.
Without salt the feast is sad.
The company makes the feast.
He who would enjoy the feast should fast on the eve.
The first seeding on the feast of All Saints and the last on the feast of Saint Andrew.
A fast day is the eve of a feast day.
A day of fasting is the eve of a feast.
A wolf's mourning is the fox's feast.
Be first at the feast, and last at the fight.
He that is of a merry heart hasth a continual feast.
The delicacy of the feast is the learned guest.
You cannot stop planting cereals just because birds are going to feast on them.
A good conscience is a continual feast.
Small cheer and great welcome make a great feast.
Is there no mean but fast or feast?
Be first at the feast, and last at the fight.
The feast passes and the fool remains.
There is a feast once even in Hell.
Fidlers, dogs and flies, come to the feast uncalled.
Enough's as good as a feast.
Keep the feast to the feast day.
An unch is a feast.
He that never eats flesh thinks harigals a feast.
Whoever brings his wife to every feast will not be lacking for headaches.
Every feast has its guest of honour.
Like the marriage feast of mapassa.
After a feast a man scratches his head.
The feast passes and the fool remains.
The wedding feast is not made with mushrooms only.
A contented mind is a continual feast.
A person who arrives at a feast when the cooked meat is being pulled out of the pot does not know what was endured by others to catch and cook it.
A person who arrives at a feast does not know what was endured by others.
Where you won't feast from, you sense it sooner than later.
It is not a feast till the roast, and there are no galling trials till marriage.
The pain of the little finger is felt by the whole body.
Hunger is felt by a slave and hunger is felt by a king.
A burden which one chooses is not felt.
I felt sorry for myself because I had no shoes - until I met a man who had no feet.
Anger against a brother is felt in the flesh, not in the bone.
Anger against a brother is felt on the flesh, not in the bone.
Hunger is felt by a slave, and hunger is felt by a king.
To cut into another's man's ear is like cutting into a felt hat.
He laughs at scars who never felt a wound.
The point of the thorn is small, but hw who has felt it does not forget it.
Not to have felt pain is not to have been human.
Man grows up, felt wears out.
Wenn de Appel rîp, is sau felt he .
Wenn de Appel rîp is, sau felt he.
Hunger is felt by slave and king alike.
A burden of one's own choice is not felt.
Не jests at scars that never felt a wound.
A hundred male and a hundred female qualities make a perfect human being.
Gifts is the key to the female heart.
A leopard is chasing us, and you are asking me, "Is it a male or a female?"
Facts are male, words are female.
It is better to be a male for one day than a female for ten.
A leopard is chasing us and do you ask me: ‘is it a male or female?'
They asked the female cat why her kittens were of different colors; she said she is embarrassed to say no.
Who cares if a crow is male or female?
Even a big elephant can be caught in one female hair.
Words are female, deeds are male.
The female of the species is more deadly than the male.
Female quarrels breed court cases.
When the river is filled, Be quick to fetch some into your bucket.
He is too idle to fetch his breath.
When you go to fetch water and do not return, they do not inquire about the pot.
Send, and fetch.
Don't fetch water in a basket.
If your neighbor's house is afire, fetch water to save your own.
A dog that will fetch a bone will carry a bone.
One goes to fetch water with a jug for so long, until the handle breaks away.
If you leap into a well, providence is not bound to fetch you out.
The winds may fell the massive oak, but bamboo, bent even to the ground, will spring upright after the passage of the storm.
The Pilgrim Fathers landed on the shores of America and fell on their knees; then they fell upon the aborigines.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
They wooed her and she resisted; they neglected her and she fell in love.
The repeated stroke will fell the oak.
Never fell oak at the very first stroke.
One blind man followed the other and they both fell into the ditch.
A cracked pot never fell off the hook.
He got out of the mud and fell into the river.
He that never rode never fell.
A lizard that fell from the top of a tree wastes its time looking back to where it fell from; if there was anything good the lizard deserved, it could not have missed it while it was there on top of the tree.
When the rain fell at puuohaloa where were you.
He fell with his nose in the butter.
If rubles fell from heaven the poor would have no bag.
Flying from the bull he fell into the river.
His bread fell into the honey.
One man cut the barrage, and a thousand people fell into the river.
The toad that wanted to avoid the rain fell in the water.
A palm wine taper does not stop tapping palm wine because he once fell from the top of a palm wine tree.
Do not look where you fell, but where you slipped.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Не that never climbed, never fell.
A single stroke don't fell the oak.
He struck at Tib, but down fell Tim.
From sudden desire of halim he fell in the pot.
He fell to the other side of the horse.
A great stone fell down from his heart.
In spring no one thinks of the snow that fell last year.
Rule youth well, and eild will rule it fell.
Never rade, never fell.
He rides sicker that fell never.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
What fell off the cart is [as good as] gone.
The glass-dealer's horses fell out, and he looked on to see which kicked hardest.
His heart fell down to his heels.
He fell to-day, I may fall to-morrow.
The stone fell on the pitcher? Woe to the pitcher. The pitcher fell on the stone? Woe to the pitcher.
The very time I thought I was lost, my dungeon shook and my chains fell off.
One man cut the barrage, and a thousand people fell into the river.
The fly fell into the milk.
The reaper earned a reputation and fell asleep.
The least boy always carries the biggest fiddle.
There are many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
A borrowed fiddle does not finish a tune.
God save you from a bad neighbour, and from a beginner on the fiddle.
There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
Friends are like fiddle strings, they must not be screwed too tight.
There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
It needs more skill than I can tell to play the second fiddle well.
As princes fiddle, subjects must dance.
If you're a reed-player, why did your father die of typhoid fever?
He who has a fever is not shown to the fire.
Feed a cold, starve a fever.
Unprofitable is a fever of the world.
Feed a cold and starve a fever.
You might as well die with the chills as with the fever.
Don't pride over your wealth or beauty, one will be gone in a night and the other with a fever.
Hussars pray for war, and the doctor for fever.
Marriage is the opposite to a fever attack; it begins very hot and ends very cold.
The one who has a fever thinks that honey is bitter.
The fourth fever kills the old and cures the young.
Fever sustains the sick.
It is no advantage for a man in fever to change his bed.
If envy were a fever, all the world would be ill.
A fever in autumn is either long lasting or mortal.
No matter how fast the poplar grows, it will never reach heaven.
When do we have a day of fast? When there is no bread and ham in the larder.
No matter how fast a man is, he cannot outrun his shadow.
How can one start a fast with baklava in one's hand.
As fast as laws are devised, their evasion is contrived.
Keep your sickness until friday and don't fast.
Trouble rides a fast horse.
If you want to travel fast use the old roads.
Better a stride that will last than a trot that tires fast.
It is better to walk fast than to grow angry at the forest.
When you run alone, you run fast. When you run together, you run far.
No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up.
The fast talker makes mistakes.
A fool is like the big drum that beats fast but does not realize its hollowness.
If the rabbit is your enemy, admit that he can sprint fast.
Bad news travels fast.
Bad news travels fast.
Death rides a fast camel.
Good faith is a seldom guest, when you have him, hold him fast.
What blossoms beautifully, withers fast.
What ripens fast does not last.
Who takes an eel by the tail or a woman by her word, grasp as he will, holds nothing fast.
If you break the fast, better eat pork, not curds.
A fast horse does not want the spur.
He who grasps too much holds nothing fast.
He who would enjoy the feast should fast on the eve.
Morning rain and women's tears dry as fast as each other.
He who lives fast goes straight to his death.
He runs as fast as if he had eggs in his shoes.
To go as fast as a friar that is invited to dinner.
Where the wasp has passed the fly sticks fast.
A fast day is the eve of a feast day.
Fast as the hare runs, the greyhound outruns her, since he catches her.
There is no one who became rich because he broke a holiday, and no one who gained weight because he broke a fast.
A person can never run so fast as to run away from his backside.
Hit them hard and hit them fast.
Alone a youth runs fast, with an elder slow, but together they go far.
No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up.
The turtle underestimates the value of fast feet.
Fast Ripe, Fast Rotten.
If you run too fast you bypass a safe place you would have hidden yourself.
It's better fast than later.
No matter how fast a man can run, he can never chase his shadow and catch it.
Old brag is a good dog, but hold fast is better.
Is there no mean but fast or feast?
He who eats until he is ill must fast until he is well.
He fasted for a whole year and then broke his fast with an onion.
He fasts and fasts, then he breaks his fast with an onion.
A moneyless man goes fast through the market.
He who grasps at all, holds nothing fast.
Art holds fast when all else is lost.
A fast is better than a bad meal.
He, who gets angry, grows old fast.
A cur's tail grows fast.
He that runs fast will not run long.
Ill news travels fast.
He that eats till he is sick must fast till he is well.
Blow the wind never so fast, it will fall at last.
Hold fast when you have.
Lovely flowers fade fast.
Put a begger on horseback, and he will ride fast, or else break his neck.
Blaw the wind ne'er sae fast, it will lown at the last.
Thorns bury shallowly into one who walks slowly. Thorns bury deeply into one who walks fast.
The crab has stuck fast between the stones at the entrance of its hole.
I, the adhesive grass, will stick fast to you.
It has stuck fast by one of the front legs.
Nothing dries so fast as tears.
He that eats till he is sick must fast till he is well.
A moneyless man goes fast through the market.
The memory of a benefit vanisheth, but the remembrance of an injury sticketh fast in the heart.
Fast bind, fast find;
A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.
Drive fast and sing loud!
It's not what you know, it's how fast you can find it.
It is better to walk fast than to grow angry at the forest.
Old brag is a good dog, but hold fast is better.
The fast faggot is not easily broken.
Ye will break your crag as soon as your fast in his house.
A sillerless man gangs fast thraugh the market.
Hold fast when you have it.
He who grasps at much holds fast little.
A man is as old as he feels himself to be.
His own wound is what everyone feels soonest.
An oil lamp feels proud to give light even though it wears itself away.
Pride feels no pain.
The hen lays an egg, and the cock feels the pain in his backside.
It is the one who lies by a fire who feels the heat.
When the eyes see nothing, the heart feels nothing.
He that sleeps sound feels not the toothache.
Every tree feels the force of the wind.
A man is as old as he feels, a woman as old as she looks.
He that feels sorry for the shoe, loses the horse.
He is miserable once, who feels it; but twice, who fear it before it comes.
A thorn has a small point, but the person who feels it does not forget its sting.
Who suffers from love, feels no pain.
No one feels the pains that arise from unintended injury.
An italian only feels safe with his hook in his belt.
A fly that lands on a carabao feels itself to be higher than the carabao.
He feels like a cat in an strange warehouse.
He that fears danger in time seldom feels it.
Every one feels the cold according as he is clad.
The knee feels the tapping.
He who feels no compassion will become insane.
A guilty conscience feels continual fear.
If a man returns from a long journey and no one says welcome back to him he feels like one who has not arrived.
Only the person who wears the shoe feels it when it pitches.
A satisfied person does not know what a hungry one feels.
He who feels it, knows it.
No man is angry that feels not himself hurt.
He who feels himself scabby, let him scratch.
Pride feels no pain.
If the glacier perceives a headless army is clumsy, it feels a sort of emphatic guilt, I dare say.
Who suffers because of love, feels no pain.
A woman is like a cat: the more you pet her the better she feels.
A dead mouse feels no cold.
Who hears music feels his solitude.
Every one feels his own burden heavy.
Let him who feels he has a dirty nose wipe it.
Only the victim feels really the pain.
A guilty conscience feels continual fear.
If you are doing wrong, make sure you don't get fat from it.
The fat woman gives the sweetest ride.
A poor man's sheep will never get fat.
If you have decided to eat a dog, eat a fat one.
Ain't over till the fat lady sings.
Before the fat one slims, the slim one will die.
A fat belly did not invent gun powder.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
The fat buffalo will attract the lean buffalo.
He talks like a sausage without the fat.
'tis a fat bird that bastes itself.
He is not fat -- it is his belt that doesn't fit.
The eel that got away is as fat as your thigh.
If you are born fat you will not die thin.
Better a meal of vegetables where there is love than a fatted ox where there is hatred.
It is always the fat ones who lead the dance.
After we fry the fat, we see what is left.
A fat woman warms even the coldest the night.
If you want to eat pig, choose one which is fat.
The dog called "Sorrow," without eating, will be fat in every house.
When the hen gets fat, she stops lying.
The miserly man is like a fattened ox: he will give of his fat only when he has been deprived of his life.
The opera isn't over till the fat lady sings.
Would you live long, be healthy and fat, drink like a dog and eat like a cat.
A lean agreement is better than a fat lawsuit.
Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth.
The miller's pigs are fat but it wasn't all mouter they ate.
Show the fatted calf, but not the thing that fattened him.
Fat is not to be had without labour.
The rabbit gets fat on what the hare misses.
To the lean pig a fat acorn.
A good cock was never fat.
You must take the fat with the lean.
Better a lean agreement than a fat sentence.
A fat kitchen, a lean testament.
A fat kitchen is next door to poverty.
A horse grown fat kicks.
Who has patience may get fat thrushes at a farthing apiece.
Long and lazy, little and loud; fat and fulsome, pretty and proud.
The beauty of a housewife will not put more fat into the soup.
A fat woman warms the night.
You will not choke on big words and pig fat.
In May the horse gets fat, but if he doesn't get fat it's better to ditch him.
A lean compromise is better than a fat lawsuit.
May the man be damned and never grow fat, Who wears two faces under one hat.
If you want to eat a toad, you should look for a fat and juicy one.
Fat cats and thin birds can share a yard, but thin cats and fat birds no way.
Laugh and grow fat.
The ram that is shown around is not fat.
He who likes to eat cows hump will not fail to grow fat.
Wisdom is lost in a fat man's body.
You won't get much fat from a dry bone.
Make sure you leave some fat for the other side.
If you want to eat a toad, you should look for a fat and juicy one.
You need not grease a fat sow.
Laugh and grow fat.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgement.
The opera ain't over until the fat lady sings.
The fat is in the fire.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
A fat woman is a blanket for the winter.
The goat does not get fat just by whispering.
A fat man is worthless in the fields.
A modest dog seldom grows fat.
The fat sow knows not what the hungry sow suffers.
A green Christmas makes a fat churchyard.
The eye of the master makes the horse fat.
A meagre compromise is better than a fat lawsuit.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will.
Better a lean agreement than a fat lawsuit.
Fat hens lay few eggs.
Lean liberty is better than fat slavery.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
The fat is in the fire.
The fatter the flea, the leaner the dog.
Truth will not make you fat but you won't choke on a lie.
Fat head, less brains.
The master's eye makes the animals fat.
On fat land grow foulest weeds.
Dry bread is better with love than a fat capon with fear.
A tarrowing bairn was never fat.
Every man slams the fat sows arse.
A thistle is a fat salad for an ass's mouth.
Who lives in lust will die in hunger for fat.
A skinny pig is better than a fat chicken.
When there is killing weather, the dogs grow fat, when there is.
Today's lung is better than tomorrow's fat.
Who writes love letters grows thin; who carries them, fat.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
The fault of another is a good teacher.
It's not the fault of the pig, but of the one who scratches his back.
He who looks for a friend without a fault will never find one.
Every fault that a Sultan pleases can be a quality.
He who loses is always in fault.
Justifying a fault doubles it.
If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself.
If there were no fault, there would be no pardon.
Suspicion may be no fault, but showing it may be a great one.
Everyone puts his fault on the times.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
There's never a wise man without fault.
There's no wise man without a fault.
A friend's fault should be known but not abhorred.
A fault confessed is half forgiven.
Who excuses himself without being accused makes his fault manifest.
He who suspects is seldom at fault.
If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars? If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
It's not one person's fault if two people quarrel.
One man's fault is another man's lesson.
A wilful fault has no excuse, and deserves no pardon.
Hunger finds no fault with cookery.
Bear patiently that which you suffer by your own fault.
Bear patiently that which thou sufferest by thine own fault.
Hunger finds no fault with the cookery.
Don't find fault with what you don't understand.
'tis a good horse that has no fault.
Intoxication is not the wine's fault but man's.
There's no harm in wine, it's drunkenness that is at fault.
It's not the fault of the parrot, but of the one who teaches him to talk.
It's not the fault of the indian, but of he who makes of the indian his friend.
It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese.
Never find fault with the absent.
A goshawk is an egg child, if sleeps hungry its his own fault.
One fault does not warrant divorce of a wife.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
Hunger finds no fault with moldy corn.
The disgrace of the city is the fault of the citizens.
He that seeks a horse or a wife without fault, has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed.
His fault is besides him.
They did not find a fault in the rose, they said O! you are red checked.
Every clown can find fault, though it would puzzle him to do better.
It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
He that is in fault is in suspicion.
Every one can find fault; few can do better.
He that commits a fault thinks everyone speaks of it.
It is seldom the fault of one when two argue.
It's not the fault of one, that two are fighting.
If death be terrible, the fault is not in death, but thee.
Every beauty has some fault and every plain jane some grace.
A fault denied is twice committed.
A fault that is denied once is committed twice.
A good dog never barks at fault.
The fault is as great as he that commits it.
The absent are always at fault.
He who wants a mule without fault must walk on foot.
No man grieves long unless by his own fault.
It is but a small merit to observe silence, but it is a grave fault to speak of matters on which we should be silent.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
Anyone can find fault, and those who find the most have the most.
It is not the cook's fault when the cassava turns out to be hard and tasteless.
He who wants a mule without a fault, must walk on foot.
Love your friend with his fault.
Being young is a fault which improves daily.
For fault of wise men fools sits on binks.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
The fault is great in proportion to him who commits it.
Not every fault is to be reminded.
He who finds fault wants to buy.
I'll give away rice fields and footpaths.
At the beginning of january, take the bull to fields of heather.
Eating slowly is good for the stomach; plowing deeply is good for the fields.
Before you marry, have a house to live in, fields to till, and vines to cut.
Working in the fields is hard, but hunger is harder.
Work the fields on a fine day, study on a rainy day.
Unplowed fields make hollow bellies; unread books make hollow minds.
Don't move an ancient boundary stone or encroach on the fields of the fatherless.
The distant fields look greener.
Woods have ears, fields have eyes.
Some hope for rain even though they have not prepared their fields.
Woods have ears and fields have eyes.
A landmark is very well placed between the fields of two brothers.
Very good corn grows in little fields.
There's nothing like having the key of the fields.
When the fields yield not, the saints have not.
The beasts plan ahead before entering the fields.
The wood pigeon's voice is the glory of the garden.
The francolin's voice is the glory of the fields.
The child who grows up with you is your fellow.
A monkey makes fun of the red behinds of his fellow monkeys.
The Power fellow will have another day.
The lucky fellow loses his wife, the unlucky fellow loses his horse.
Choose your fellow traveller before you start on your journey.
Don't lean on your fellow men - theirs is an ever moving support.
A grain does not fill a sieve, but it helps its fellow.
Worth makes the man and want of it the fellow.
Stone dead hath no fellow.
A bird doesn't alert his fellow bird that a stone is coming.
You can't hold another fellow down in the ditch unless you stay down there with him.
A fellow can do anything if he lists.
The best chaperon a girl can have is to be in love with another fellow.
Your own faults look as big to the other fellow as his do to you.
Do not judge your fellow man until you have stood in his place.
The good fellow to everyone is a good friend to no one.
A good fellow tint never, but at an ill fellows hand.
The fellow roasts his fish in the flames of a fire.
A blockhead, a dolt, a donkey, a leaden-headed fellow.
What is an exalted position to a low fellow but a golden ring in a swine's snout?
Liberate me from that bad fellow, myself.
Stone dead hath no fellow.
Do not judge your fellow man until you have stood in his place.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
When you chase a fellow man reserve the strength to switch you back when he recharges and turns.
You hold an eel by the tail. [You are dealing with a slippery fellow.].
Children have a hair of their father.
Like father, like son.
The son shoots a leopard; the father is proud.
They asked the mule who his father was.
Covetousness is the father of unfulfilled desires.
As long as I am running my father will still have a son.
One father can feed seven children, but seven children cannot feed one father.
Success has more than one father.
A father maintains ten children better than ten children one father.
If he hasn't seen her/his father, he would claim to be a king.
If you're a reed-player, why did your father die of typhoid fever?
Treat your superior as a father, your equal as a brother, and your inferior as a son.
You only appreciate your father the day you become a father yourself.
Alas for the son whose father went to heaven.
If they don't exchange a few words, father and son will never know one another.
Any man can be a father, but it takes a special person to be a dad.
The father may well be a horse, but it's most likely that the son will be a mule.
The wish is father to the thought.
A mother is gold, a father is a mirror.
Tell me who your father is, and I'll tell you who you are.
Few are like father, no one is like mother.
Many a good father has but a bad son.
Experience is the father of wisdom.
Karma is the mother and karma is the father.
When a son attends to his father, it is a twofold joy for both; when wise things are prescribed to him, the son is.
Do not boast about your wealth if you are a father.
If you know his father and grandfather you may trust his son.
A diamonds father is coal, yet it regards itself as upper-class.
Three daughters and a mother are four devils for a father.
Find as much love as was given by your father and mother many times.
A stammerer would eventually say father.
Dance, father, people's eyes don't eat, they just stare.
Except for my father and my mother everybody lies.
The day you go naked, is the day you will meet your father.
If the father is a frog, the son will be a frog.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
A man never grows up until his father dies.
Experience is the father of wisdom and memory the mother.
The wish is the father of the deed.
Children suck the mother when they are young and the father when they are old.
Play, play, with the beard of the father also play?
One good father can do more than 100 schoolmasters.
For lack of men they made my father a justice.
A priest is a man who is called Father by everyone except his own children who are obliged to call him Uncle.
While father alive to get to know people.
The enemy of a father will never be friends of his son.
A crazy father and mother make sensible children.
Who strikes his father or mother his hand will grow out of the grave.
The olive grove of your grandfather, the cherry trees of your father, and your grape vines.
'tis a wise child that knows its own father.
An ennobled peasant does not know his own father.
The desire is the father of the thought.
A father is a banker provided by nature.
Alas! father, another daughter is born to you.
For the want of worthy men they made my father alcade.
After a thrifty father, a prodigal son.
When a good offer comes for your daughter, don't wait till her father returns from market.
A greedy father has thieves for children.
The ill-mannered child finds a father wherever he goes.
Regard Heaven as your father, Earth as your Mother and all things as your Brothers and Sisters.
If a young man is not prudent in seeking what killed his father, what killed his father may also kill him.
Whichever son is able should bury his father. The first son did not kill him.
The sin for which you repent is the father of virtue; but a virtue that you talk about, is the mother of sin.
When the mother dies the father becomes an uncle.
You can buy everything, except a father and a mother.
A father without sons is like a bow without arrows.
No one will say, "My father is incontinent." Everyone will say, "He is a man of advice and wisdom."
A fair daughter's father has no ears.
If a father does not cultivate, the son does not inherit land.
One father is better at caring for ten children than ten children are for one father.
Writing is the mother of eloquence and the father of artists.
A husband of a mother is a father.
The goodness of the father reaches higher than a mountain; that of the mother goes deeper than the ocean.
Who teaches me for a day is my father for a lifetime.
The emperor is the father of his people, not a master to be served by slaves.
A father never resembles his son, it's the son that resembles the father.
A father voodoos with his son and a mother voodoos with her daughter.
The wise man is father of the fool.
If you know his father and grandfather, don't worry about his son.
If she can't dig or cook send her back to her father.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
If you have a poor father that is destiny; if you have a poor father-in-law, that is your mistake.
To become a father is easy, but to be a father is difficult.
As the baker, so the buns; as the father, so the sons.
Honour your father and your mother.
The child is the father of the man.
When a father praises his son, he flatters himself.
The wish is father to the thought.
At fifty a man is either the Pope or a fool.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
He that is not gallant at twenty, strong at thirty, rich at forty, or experienced at fifty, will never be gallant, strong, rich, or prudent.
Fifty lemons are a load for one person, but for fifty persons they are perfume.
Fifty steps laugh at a hundred steps.
Every year after fifty brings ten ailments.
There isn't a Holy Week without the fifty days, nor the fifty days without the Sirocco.
He who stole (six coins) is hanged. He who stole (fifty coins) is praised.
Forty is the old age of youth; fifty is the youth of old age.
Feed a dog to bark at you.
A nightingale doesn't feed on songs.
Feed sparingly and defy the physician.
One father can feed seven children, but seven children cannot feed one father.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
The crow pecks at the ox to clean it -- not to feed from it.
I have a mouth which I feed, it must speak what I please.
If you feed the mouth, the eye becomes shy.
It is sad when the elephant dies, but the whole tribe can feed on it.
When a lion cannot find the flesh to feed on, it has no choice but to eat the grass.
Feed a cold, starve a fever.
When the feed box is empty, the horses bite each other.
Mere words do not feed the friars.
The morning of the race is not the morning to feed your horse.
He that wills not to feed a cat feeds the mice.
For a voracious beast pebbles in his feed.
Beautifully decorated plate won't feed anyone.
Did hogs feed here or did lithuanians have a feast here?
A golden cage does not feed the bird.
Feed a cold and starve a fever.
Fine words don't feed cats.
Feed your horse as a friend, mount him as an enemy.
When bull ole him feed a fence side.
There is no need to feed the dog that follows.
The cat who snoops around will feed his kitten.
A man overboard, a mouth less to feed.
A fine cage won't feed the bird.
However you feed the wolf, he still looks at the wood.
No matter how much you feed a wolf, he will always return to the forest.
Feed a crow and it will pluck out your eyes.
He is a great simpleton who starves himself to feed another.
Nine gamblers could not feed a single rooster.
When yuh leave home pon a morning, yuh don't know who gine feed yuh.
If you have only two pennies left in the world, with the first penny, you should buy rice to feed your family. With the second penny, say the wise Japanese, you should buy a lily. The Japanese understand the importance of dreaming...
Feed a dog for three days and it is gratefull for three years. Feed a cat for three years and it forgets after three days.
He who does not feed his cat will feed rats.
No matter how much you feed a lizard it cannot become a crocodile.
The kite in the skies doesn't feed on clouds.
A dog you don't feed will never heed your call.
Slop your hogs before you feed your children.
Old praise dies unless you feed it.
If I had two loaves of bread, I would sell one and buy hyacinths, for they would feed my soul.
He who can sit upon a stone and feed himself should not move.
Who will not feed the cats, must feed the mice and rats.
A crow does not louse the buffalo to clean him but to feed himself.
Old fish and young flesh do feed men best.
It is up to the people to feed the dogs; it's up to the Cardias to feed the Turks.
Good management and feed give eggs.
The laying hen says: give me feed to fill my beak and I'll give you eggs.
Charity and pride have different aims, yet both feed the poor.
Beggars breed and rich men feed.
A mother can more easily feed seven children than seven children can feed one mother.
Feed the raven and he'll peck out your eyes.
Great fish feed on the lesser.
That which should feed our children ought not to be given to dogs.
I will feed you even though you are an outcast. I will give you drink even though you are an outcast. You are still my son, even if your god has turned against you.
Feed the cow, feed yourself!
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day.
Do not eat the fingers that feed you.
The hen doesn't have breasts, but she can still feed her chicks.
Hospitality: the virtue which induces us to feed and lodge certain persons who are not in need of food and lodging. (Ambrose Bierce)
The best feed of a horse is his master's eye.
Do not protect yourself with a fence, but rather by your friends.
Do not mend your neighbor's fence before seeing to your own.
A woman is a flower in a garden; her husband is the fence around it.
A fence lasts three years, a dog lasts three fences, a horse three dogs, and a man three horses.
Don't tell your secret even to a fence.
Don't make a fence more expensive or more important than what it is fencing.
A garden without a fence is like a dog without a tail.
The pumpkin gives birth and the fence has the trouble.
Do not protect yourself by a fence, but rather by your friends.
A fence makes love more keen.
The lowest fence is the easiest to get across.
Building the fence, when the cows are all stole.
When bull ole him feed a fence side.
A man without a wife is like a field without a fence.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
There is little use building a fence around the garden to keep out the rabbits.
A herdsman must yell to enter the fence.
Everyone pushes a falling fence.
When you see a turtle on top of a fence post, you know he had some help.
Like a fence, character cannot be strengthened by whitewash.
Love your neighbour, but do not pull down the fence.
Every one tries to cross the fence where it is lowest.
Love your neighbor, but don't tear down your fence.
Love your neighbor, but keep your fence.
Love your neighbour, but don't pull down the fence.
'But' is a fence over which few leap.
"but” is a fence over which few leap.
Make not a fence more expensive or more important than the thing that is fenced.
Don't give the sparrow in the hand for the crow on the fence.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
One cow breaks the fence, and a dozen leap it.
Where the fence is lowest, everyone jumps over.
Silence is a fence around wisdom.
Sitting on the fence.
The grass may be greener on the other side of the fence but you still have to mow it.
A fence does not enter another.
No fence is built for the eyes.
A fence with supports is not overthrown by high winds.
The more you stir filth the worse it stinks.
Standing pools gather filth.
To-day in finery, to-morrow in filth.
Priests, cousins and pigeons. The first two are not good to marry. The Last two, serve only to filth the house.
As the snow melts the filth shows through.
One is never soiled but by filth.
The woman in finery, the house in filth, but the doorway swept.
Purity separates us, filth unites.
Standing pools gather filth.
If not for fear, sin would be sweet.
The stupid fear fortune, the wise endure it.
Fear has big eyes.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
If he has thrown the only spear he had at you, it means that he doesn't fear you.
The barking dog gives you no power -- it gives you fear.
Fear to let fall a drop, will always make you spill a lot.
Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum.
All temptations are found either in hope or fear.
A newborn baby has no fear of tigers.
Beggars fear no rebellion.
The firm tree does not fear the storm.
Fear doesn't travel by donkey.
Everyone is master of their own fear.
Do not fear a stain that disappears with water.
All fear has much imagination and little talent.
If you are wearing shoes, you don't fear the thorns.
Fear is no obstacle to death.
A wise man does not lose his way, a brave man does not fear.
Fear to let spill a drop and you will spill a lot.
Fear the person who doesn't fear God.
Fear the worse.
The brave man is not he who doesn't feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear.
If you fear God, you won't fear humans.
Fear is a fine spur; so is rage.
Fools enter where brave men fear to tread.
Fear no man, and do justice to all men.
Whiskey on beer, never fear. Beer on whiskey, mighty risky.
Better face a danger once than be always in fear.
All weapons of war cannot arm fear.
Three things to fear: a crumbling wall, an angry dog, and a shrew.
The anvil does not fear a good sledge-hammer.
Fear makes the wolf bigger than he is.
Wine upon beer is very good cheer; beer upon wine consider with fear.
There's no need to fear the wind if your haystacks are tied down.
Fear is a fine spur; so is rage.
Food is no more important than wisdom, The beginning of wisdom is the fear of God.
He who has a clean account, what fear of calculation does he have?
The fear of God is the beginning of all wisdom.
The man who has mounted an elephant will not fear the bark of a dog.
He is miserable once, who feels it; but twice, who fear it before it comes.
He who has a straw tail is always in fear of its catching fire.
Who is in fear of every leaf must not go into the wood.
A hungry dog does not fear the stick.
Better to fear than to be frightened.
Fear an ignorant man more than a lion.
It is the fear of what tomorrow may bring that makes the tortoise to carry his house along with him wherever he goes.
Fear and love do not go together.
Good eyes don't fear smoke.
Where there is no fear, there is no pity.
Who grows up without fear will live without honour.
The fear of death takes away the joy of living.
Let me get over the lake, and I will have no fear of the brook.
The thief has a chicken's heart - he sleeps in fear.
The naked don't fear robbery.
Fear the Greeks bearing gifts.
Fear the law not the judge.
Beat your own and others will fear you.
Fear does not empty tomorrow of its sadness; it empties today of its power.
Before the time, great courage; when at the point, great fear.
Fear and love never eat from the same plate.
Fear guards the vineyard.
The calves do not fear the horns of their mother.
One has to face fear or forever run from it.
Do right and fear no man.
The growing millet does not fear the sun.
Fear the man who fears you.
Lies are usually caused by undue fear of men.
If you conduct yourself properly, then fear no one.
Fear is power.
Only fools have no fear.
May your enemies run with fear.
A knife does not fear thorns, a woman fears man.
One can not stop sleeping in fear of bad dreams.
One sent by a woman does not fear death.
Never fear the sea, fear the storm.
Ownership is to fear.
Merit is often an obstacle to fortune; the reason is it produces two bad effects, envy and fear.
That fear may reach all, punish but few.
Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum.
Who created thunder does not fear it.
Who has shoes does not fear thorns.
The fear of God is not wearing a white turban.
Fear blows wind into your sails.
All cats love fish but fear to wet their paws.
Be frugal in prosperity, fear not in adversity.
The man whose conscience is clear will never fear a knock on the door at midnight.
People fool themselves. They pray for a long life but fear old age.
Familiarity is like the sea that kills the fisherman.
Fisherman near fisherman. Hunter near hunter.
The fisherman fishes in troubled water.
One fisherman recognizes another from afar.
A fisherman never says his fish stink.
As a snipe and a clam are entangled in a fight, a fisherman catch them both.
If you catch fish, you're a fisherman.
Literal meaning: The fisherman is the shark's friend.
The herringman hates the fisherman.
A fisherman can recognize another fisherman from afar.
Things may be traded in the city but it is the fisherman who brings in the food supply.
For the fisherman, the fun is over when the fish are in the net.
It is the bait that lures, not the fisherman or the rod.
An Irishman is never at his best except when fighting.
The best fighting is often against yourself.
When the branches of trees in the forest are fighting, the roots are kissing.
To the fighting man peace is sure.
The buckets take to fighting with the well, and get their heads broken.
Let's fight, let's fight, no one knows whom fighting would favor.
Fighting a losing battle.
Masters are fighting, servants' forelocks are creaking.
Fighting for your country glorifies death.
Even a horn can be stopped from fighting and made to sing forever.
On painting and fighting look aloof.
The weapon first, fighting second.
Advising is often better than fighting.
Where two are fighting, a third one wins.
While two dogs are fighting for a bone, a third runs away with it.
It's not the fault of one, that two are fighting.
Fear is worse than fighting.
The quince is for fiancees who are fighting and the azarole for good people.
A full belly is neither good for flight, nor for fighting.
You can't get rid of Pori without fighting and of Tampere without a woman.
Fighting is harmful.
Fighting a wolf with a flex stalk - either side is afraid of the other.
Macedonians are fighting.
On painting and fighting look adreich.
Let's take the blood sedimentation from the nose. - Fighting.
Cat makes kittens fighting.
A little nod is enough for the wise man; an ass needs a fist.
My fist is in his mouth, his fist is in my eye.
If the fight is tomorrow, why then clench your fist today?
If the fight is tomorrow, then why should you clench your fist today?
Like someone trying to capture water in his fist.
You can't shake hands with a clenched fist.
Hedgehogs are not to be killed with the fist.
Give a clown your finger he'll grasp your fist.
Choose your woman with a velvet glove, but control her with a fist of iron.
If you strike a goad with your fist, your hand will suffer most.
To show one's fist to a blind man is neither a sin nor a virtue.
If you have no hand you can't make a fist.
A woman who does not understand by a look of the eye won't understand by a box of the fist.
He is a fool who makes a mallet of his fist.
The fist loss is the best.
Woman's place is between the stove and fist.
The fist is the law, said Ville Savola.
The other fist takes to the hospital and this other takes to the graveyard.
A borrowed fiddle does not finish a tune.
If eating poison finish up the plate.
Who starts well will finish badly.
Who starts something has to finish it.
Let us hurry and finish up the food; when visitors arrive, the meal will be over.
He who begins and does not finish loses his labor.
A disease that fails to finish us off will continue being condemned forever.
He who begins and does not finish loves their pains.
We can study until old age and still not finish.
Life is like shopping in a market; when you finish, you go home.
Begin in time to finish without hurry.
Nice guys finish last.
He who starts singing too high will never finish the song.
Those who begin many things finish but a few.
Finish what your start.
It is better to finish something than begin.
What is sweet in a fools mouth will surely finish is money.
A person's heart is in his feet.
No one tests the depth of a river with both feet.
Brothers and sisters are as close as hands and feet.
It is easier to cover our feet with sandals than to cover the earth with carpets.
The man on his feet carries off the share of the man sitting down.
Bury me on my feet, I have spent my entire life on my knees.
In the villages where there are no oxen, the sheep's feet seem strong.
Never marry a woman who has bigger feet than you.
If our feet leave the earth we no longer live in peace.
When a man gets his feet in lime he cannot easily get rid of it.
If you walk with your feet your shoe will get worn, if you walk with your head, your hat.
Women are just like cats -- they always land on their feet.
Heaven is at the feet of mothers.
He who throws away money with his hands will seek it with his feet.
It is easier to put leather on the soles of one's feet than cover the world with leather.
Bad news goes about in clogs, good news in stockinged feet.
He that can be patient finds his foe at his feet.
Hypocrites kick with their hind feet while licking with their tongues.
At an ambuscade of villains a man does better with his feet than his hands.
Better to die on your feet than to live on your knees.
Kick away the ladder and your feet are left dangling.
The moon and the stars are not above us, the earth is on the other side of our feet.
When a man dies his feet get bigger.
As though a bird had flown up from under your feet.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
Raise your sail one foot and you get ten feet of wind.
We forget even incense in easy times; come hard times, we embrace the buddha's feet.
Your aspirations are in heaven, but your brains are in your feet.
Before you buy shoes, measure your feet.
If you keep your head and heart going in the right direction you don't have to worry about your feet.
Only a fool tests the depth of a river with both feet.
I complained because I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
One white foot, buy him; two white feet, try him; three white feet, look well about him; four white feet, go without him.
If you've money, take a seat; it you've none, take to your feet.
A greyhound finds food in its feet.
A swan would die with pride only for its black feet.
Get down on your knees and thank God you're still on your feet.
No-one is ever poor who has the sight of his eyes and the use of his feet.
Feet accustomed to go cannot be still.
The cat would eat fish, but would not wet her feet.
Even a horse, though he has four feet, stumbles.
Words won't feet cats.
I felt sorry for myself because I had no shoes - until I met a man who had no feet.
Stretch your feet according to your blanket.
Doesn't paddle, but puts his feet in the river.
Tired feet always say that the path is long.
Pissing in your shoes won't keep your feet warm for long.
All feet tread not in one shoe.
Invite a peasant to your table and he'll put his feet on it.
God comes with leaden feet but strikes with iron hands.
If the peacock were to look at its feet, it would stop him strutting.
Feet that are used to move cannot remain quiet.
Snake at your feet – a stick at your hand.
When the hen steps on the feet of her chicken, she does not mean to kill them.
The cobbler's gaze is on the feet.
Only the feet of the voyager know the path.
Do not insult a crocodile while your feet are still in the water.
A man who has his feet hacked off cannot scurry far.
Wash your hands often, your feet seldom, and your head never.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
When the will is ready the feet are light.
Your feet will take you away from home, but your stomach will always bring you back.
The jaws have nothing to chew if the feet do not walk.
The mouth does not eat if the feet do not walk and the hands work.
Cooked rice grains sticking to the soles of the feet.
The turtle underestimates the value of fast feet.
When you want to test the depths of a stream, don't use both feet.
Although there exist many thousands of subjects for elegant conversation, there are persons who cannot meet a cripple without talking about feet.
Be skeptical; long garments can also hide big feet.
Reshape one's feet to fit into new shoes.
It never rains on your neighbors without you getting your feet wet.
A feet can be shorter while an inch can be longer.
It takes more than one cold day for a river to freeze three feet deep.
As long as time is not pressing one does not burn incense; when it becomes urgent one kisses the feet of Buddha.
Every rock strikes the feet of the poor.
A foolish head weakens the feet.
The mouth does not eat if the feet do not walk and the hands work.
Your feet will take you away from home but your stomach will bring you back.
Who walks in the mud, at some point must clean his feet.
The success of a man is through the soles of his feet, that of a woman is from her legs.
He who takes a light to find a snake should start at his own feet.
Do not insult a crocodile while your feet are still in the water.
A man that flatters his neighbour spreads a net for his feet.
Brothers are like hands and feet.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
All asses do not go on four feet.
Walk on your own feet.
The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm.
Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat.
Everyone makes firewood of a fallen tree.
How can you put out a fire set on a cart-load of firewood with only a cup of water.
From the fallen tree everyone makes firewood.
What is now top of the mast, will be firewood soon.
Whatever the type of firewood found in a place, it is usually good enough for the people of that place to cook with.
He who has an axe does not lack firewood.
An axe with rio handle does not split firewood.
Remove firewood from under a pot.
Only when all contribute their firewood can they build up a strong fire.
Though you live near a forest, do not waste firewood.
Firewood yields ash.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away in the morning to avoid removing the ash; he will have to deal with it when he comes back.
One with more firewood than you, has more ash than you.
A good vineyard provides bread, wine, and firewood.
The cimex lives in the firewood and still it reaches its full growth.
Unused firewood mocks the burning wood.
The poor is poor in the hell as well, he must carry firewood under the rich people.
Burn one day's gathering of firewood on the same day.
He who brings firewood infected with maggots in his house should not complain when lizards start visiting him.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away.
Me do not know hard firewood, but only lops people put aside hard tasks and devote themselves only to easy ones.
A crowd is like a smoldering log which can spark into a flame at any time.
From fire to flame.
Blood boils without flame.
Protect the flame of your candle and it will light more.
He flies into the flame, the summer insect.
Zigliara, fire and flame.
Life is like a lamp flame; it needs a little oil now and then.
The life of an old man can be compared with the flame of a candle in a drought.
Man's goodness is a flame that can be hidden but never extinguished.
The flame is not far from the smoke.
Around and around, the moth dies in the candle flame.
Every little love captured as a playful spark becomes a great flame.
The man is the flame, the woman the glow.
While avoiding the smoke I have fallen into the flame.
The gnat trusting itself to the flame is singed.
Living life is not like just crossing a field.
Look for wind in a field.
He who does not cultivate his field, will die of hunger.
You can catch a cricket in your hand but its song is all over the field.
Be the first to the field and the last to the couch.
People are like grass in the field: some blossom, some wither.
Children speak in the field what they hear in the house.
You are not a man until you have plowed a field.
Love is a garden full of flowers and marriage is a field of stinging nettles.
He draws water over his own rice field.
You'll never plough a field by turning it over in your mind.
More grows in a tilled field than is sown in it.
A girl, a vineyard and a bean field are difficult to guard.
Never seek the wind in the field. It is useless to try and find what is gone.
A communal field is ruined by the bears.
He who wants milk should not sit in the middle of a field and wait for a cow to back up to him.
Do not choose your wife at a dance, but in the field among the harvesters.
It is by the strength of their number that the ants in the field are able to carry their prey to the nest.
Don't poop in a field and don't talk in a forest.
Talk doesn't plow the field.
Prepare the fallow field well enough and you'll be free to go off and gather the hemp ties.
A man without a wife is like a field without a fence.
A bad bush is better than an open field.
A field held in common is always ravaged by bears.
Even one person in the field is a warrior, if he is a soviet warrior.
Woman without man is like a field without seed.
Happiness is like a field you can harvest every season.
The wise man's promises are like dew on the field.
Whim rules the child, and weather the field, each is open to chance.
If your corn field is far from your home, the birds will eat your corn.
A little idleness lost a tilled field.
Even though you tread slowly over your rice field it will become muddy.
To draw water into one's own rice field.
A mans greatest shortcoming is that he neglects his own field and weeds that of others.
Be first in the field, the last to the couch.
Him with a bushy field cannot harvest edibles from it.
Not all the baboons that enter a maize field come out satisfied.
A field becomes exhausted by constant tillage.
The forest has ears, and field has eyes.
Good corn is not reaped from a bad field.
The foot of the farmer manures the field.
As the field, so the crops; as the father, so the sons.
All the fruit is not found in just one field.
The wood has ears, the field has eyes.
Do not speak of secret matters in a field that is full of little hills.
The forest has an ear, the field has an eye.
Bairns speak i' the field what they hear i' the ha'.
Don't call a man who has a field in valgonu "poor”.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a farmer too lazy to plant his field.
Green is the grass of the least trodden field.
A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat.
It is not the owner, trampling his own field, that spoils it.
The food found wacu in the field.
Single in a field is not a warrior.
Who leaves no traces in the field, will be put to shame at harvest.
Work improves the harvest better than the field itself.
One cannot learn to swim in a field.
The fertile field becomes sterile without rest.
The field should be poorer than the farmer.
A single [man] in a field is not a warrior.
A man in this world without learning is as a beast of the field.
If you go and take the field of an enemy, the enemy will come and take your field.
Garden flowers larger, field flowers stronger.
The evil field will evil yield.
She is always in the field when luck is on the road (To be said of an unfortunate friend) .
A new walk in an old field.
Nunziata, fix the salad, a little vinegar, lots of oil, four reckless mouthfuls, and then some drinks from the jug.
I am in a fix.
If it is not broken don't try to fix it.
Distrust a prairie-dog and fix it.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
What one fool can ensnare, not a 1000 sages can fix.
There is no master who can fix the ravages of old age.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
Distrust a prairie-dog and fix it.
He who wants to go fishing must not be afraid of the water.
On a fishing lull, even a crayfish is fish.
One at a time is good fishing; two at a time is making a hog of yourself.
There is no fishing for trout in dry breeches.
Giving is fishing.
"we have rowed well,” said the flea as the fishing boat arrives at its mooring.
It is good fishing in troubled waters.
If you didn't catch anything when fishing, then a crab is a fish.
When yuh see a man fishing in a dry pond don't call he a fool.
It is better to start weaving your fishing nets than merely coveting fish at the water.
When the bait's worth more than the fish, it's time to stop fishing.
The best fishing is in the deepest waters.
It is ill fishing before the net.
It is good fishing in drumbling waters.
Fishing without a net is just bathing.
If you go fishing and catch nothing, go to the henhouse and get eggs.
Big fish are worth of fishing even if you don't catch one.
No fishing like fishing in the sea.
In the deepest water is the best fishing. (1616)
It is good fishing in streamy water.
It is good fishing in streamy water.
It is good fishing in streamy water.
There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew, and that is fishing for a clam in the clam chowder.
If you want happiness for an hour, take a nap. If you want happiness for a day, go fishing. If you want happiness for a month, get married. If you want happiness for a year, inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime, help someone else.
The gods do not deduct from marls allotted span the hours spent fishing.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap. If you want happiness for a day -- go fishing. If you want happiness for a month -- get married. If you want happiness for a year -- inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime -- help someone else.
It is ill fishing if the hook is bare.
It is good fishing in streamy water.
It is good fishing in muddy water.
On a fishing lull, even a crayfish is fish [, at the lack of people even a lazybones is a man].
Borrowed garments never fit well.
He is not fat -- it is his belt that doesn't fit.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight.
You can't fit a round peg in a square hole.
Doctor Luther's shoes do not fit every parish priest.
Not all flowers are fit for nosegays.
Anything will fit a naked man.
There is never an old brogue but there is a foot to fit it.
All food is fit to eat, but not all words are fit to speak.
Words of insults are futile, the more they fit, the more they are lost.
A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table.
Away with grieving, only fit for women.
Zeal is fit only for wise men but is found mostly in fools.
To smell one's own bosom is fit.
Borrowed garments do not fit well.
Donkey's lips don't fit onto a horse's mouth.
Reshape one's feet to fit into new shoes.
Reshape one's foot to try to fit into a new shoe.
Solid learning makes a man fit company for himself.
Only those are fit to live who are not afraid to die.
Few are fit to be entrusted with themselves.
Learning makes a man fit company for himself as well as for others.
A lean fee is a fit reward for a lazy clerk.
If destiny does not fit you, fit yourself to destiny.
Make the cap fit the head.
A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table.
The same shoe does not fit every foot.
He is not fit to command others that cannot command himself.
The food we grow ourselves, is fit.
The weaknesses of old age are no fit cause for laughter, since they must be our own portion at the end.
An angry man is not fit to pray.
Not every sort of wood is fit to make an arrow.
A whistling woman and a crowing hen are neither fit for God nor men.
The same shoe does not fit every foot.
Make the cap fit the head.
If destiny does not fit you, fit yourself to destiny.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does.
Borrowed garments never fit well.
Gutta cavat lapidem non bis, sed saepe cadendo; sic homo fit sapiens non bis, sed saepe legendo.
Imitation is the highest form of flattery.
Flattery makes friends and truth makes enemies.
If we did not flatter ourselves, the flattery from others would not harm us.
You can only endure the weaknesses of others by knowing your own. Flattery is the best persuader.
The man who flatters you is a liar: the greater the flattery, the bigger the liar.
Flattery butters no parsnips.
Flattery, like perfume, should be smelled, not swallowed.
Be not led by flattery.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
He that rewards flattery, begs it.
Envy is the truest form of flattery.
Flattery makes friends and truth makes enemies.
Flattery will get you nowhere.
Flattery sits in the parlour when plain dealing is kicked out of doors.
He that rewards flattery, begs it.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Be not led by flattery.
Flattery will get you nowhere.
Flattery will get you nowhere.
Self -- love is the worst of all flattery.
Flattery sits in the parlour when plain dealing is kicked out of doors.
A thousand friends are few; one enemy is too many.
The nuts from a palm tree don't fall without dragging a few leaves with it.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
A educated woman finds few suitors.
If they don't exchange a few words, father and son will never know one another.
He who begins many things finishes but few.
If "How are you?" cost a cent, few would hear it.
Few are like father, no one is like mother.
One enemy is too many; 100 friends are far too few.
Those who die through ignorance are many; those who die because they are intelligent are few.
Many flowers, few fruits.
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.
A benevolent man should allow a few faults in himself to keeps his friends in countenance.
Few believe to err is human and to smack, divine.
Few things are easy to the unwilling.
Give every man your ear but few your voice.
Leaves enough, but few grapes.
Love many, trust few and always paddle your own canoe.
Wisdom consists of ten parts -- nine parts of silence and one part with few words.
One foe is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.
Many men know how to flatter, few men know how to praise.
Better to have a diamond with a few small flaws than a rock that is perfect.
One enemy is too much for a man, and a hundred friends too few.
A thousand friends are too few; one enemy is one too many.
Whether well-shaven or not, it looks the same after a few days.
He who knows only few things, has little to forget.
You get more from a few good animals than from the many that are poorly grazed.
The saint who works no cures has few pilgrims to his shrine.
A great estate is not gotten in a few hours.
Even in the ashes there will be a few sparks.
A few germs never hurt anyone.
One foe is too many and a hundred friends are too few.
If you want to eat pipius claw, you'll have to break a few pipiuses.
That fear may reach all, punish but few.
Drinking with a bosom friend, a thousand shots are too few; Talking with a disagreeable person, half a sentence is too many.
Have but few friends though much acquaintance.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
The tongue weighs practically nothing, but so few people can hold it.
Happiness is like a perfume, you cannot pour it all on others without allowing a few drops to fall on yourself.
He who never eats pumpkins with you, you prepare a few slices for him.
There are many echoes in the world, but few voices.
The busy man has few idle visitors: to the boiling pot the flies come not.
Follow the wise few rather than the vulgar many.
Many are called, but few are chosen.
A fool has few friends.
Choose you friends like your books: few but choice.
He who laughs at others' woes finds few friends and many foes.
Many friends, few helpers.
To one who understands, few words are needed.
Few lawyers die well, few physicians live well.
You have to break a few eggs to make an omelette.
Few are fit to be entrusted with themselves.
You can't win them all.You win a few, you lose a few.
A truth-telling woman has few friends.
Do as others do, and few will mock you.
Few words are best.
Kind words and few are a woman's ornament.
Few have luck, all have death.
Don't stop sowing just because the birds ate a few seeds.
Weighty work must be done with few words.
At court there are many hands, but few hearts.
Fat hens lay few eggs.
'But' is a fence over which few leap.
"but” is a fence over which few leap.
Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop, only a few sit down to his table.
Better wrong with the many than right with the few.
Many are called but few are chosen.
Those who begin many things finish but a few.
Who would have many friends let him test but few.
The truth is a heavy burden that few care to carry.
A hen that cackles much lays only a few eggs.
Many Eskimos and few seals.
Every one can find fault; few can do better.
Few words to the wise suffice.
He who commences many things finishes but few.
Many Aunts, many Eames, many kin, and few friends.
One whisky is all right; two is too much; three is too few.
Few words sufficeth to a wise man.
Be friendly with everyone and counsel with few.
It's better to have few pleasures than many troubles.
Many make the descent to eternal darkness but few ascend to heaven.
When God wants to punish an idiot, He teaches them a few words of Hebrew.
A cat that meweth much catcheth but few mice.
Too many doctors too few medicines.
One drink is just right; two is too many; three are too few.
Of brothers-in-law and red dogs few are good.
A man of few words but learned withal.
Many can drive an ox; few can plough.
A flea can trouble a lion more than the lion can harm a flea.
The death throes of an elephant are not so annoying as a living flea.
Don't notice the tiny flea in the other person's hair and overlook the lumbering yak on your own nose.
Don't throw your blanket in the fire just because it has one flea in it.
If a flea had money, it would buy its own dog.
"we have rowed well,” said the flea as the fishing boat arrives at its mooring.
The woman who always complains and is never satisfied with anything is like an annoying flea on the foot.
The flea sinned, the reed-mat got the beating.
The flea troubles him who has got it in his ear.
Don't strike a flea on a tiger's head.
Nothing should be done in haste but gripping a flea.
The fatter the flea, the leaner the dog.
One flea does not hinder sleep.
We will burn a blanket to kill a flea.
An englishman will burn his bed to catch a flea.
Freezes like a flea on the snow.
For a flea he burns the blanket.
Don't notice the tiny flea in the other person's hair.
I give thee flight without wings.
Look with suspicion on the flight of an enemy.
He is a fool who loses the flight for the leap.
A bird may be known by its flight.
The corpse of a bird does not decompose in flight, but on the ground.
If Candlemas day be sunny and bright, winter will have another flight; if Candlemas day be cloudy with rain, winter is gone and won't come again.
No one knows if a bird in flight has an egg in its stomach.
Clumsy birds have need of early flight.
People live like birds in the woods: when the time comes, each must take flight.
He who puts giants to flight rapidly advances.
A full belly is neither good for flight, nor for fighting.
Morn with her rosy locks dispels the shades of night, and the sun puts to flight the stars, lighting up the world.
I give thee flight without wings.
The corpse of a bird does not decompose in flight, but on the ground.
A bird may be known by its flight.
The only victory over love is flight.
If the Sultan demands five eggs, let his soldiers roast a thousand chickens.
Keep five yards from a carriage, ten yards from a horse, and a hundred yards from an elephant; but the distance one should keep from a wicked man cannot be measured.
He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever.
Five fingers are brothers but are not equals.
Not even the five fingers of our hands are alike.
Five of them would run from the bang of one empty gun.
Habit is the sixth sense that dominates the other five.
With great men one must allow five to be an even number.
To have five drachmas in the hand is better than ten drachmas on paper.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
You don't become an expert in five days.
If you have five wives, then you have five tongues.
Five fingers hold more than two forks.
Five minutes of health comfort the ill one.
Five fingers are brothers, not equals.
He is in search of a ram with five feet.
Take him up there with his five Egges, and four of them rotten.
One for sorrow, two for joy, three for a girl, four for a boy, five for silver, six for gold, and seven for a secret that must never be told.
Syracuse is a lovely place, with five bucks you can eat, drink, and get by.
To rise at five, dine at nine, sup at five, go to bed at nine, makes a man live to ninety-nine.
Your five year old son is your instructor; at ten your slave; at fifteen your equal and after that either friend or foe.
What's such child who doesn't do damage worth five marks a day - a boy may do worth one hundred.
It is well to remember that there are five reasons for drinking the arrival of a friend, one's present or future thirst, the excellence of the wine, or any other reason.
Не knows how many beans make five.
There are five ways in which to become wise: be silent.
He that has but four and spends five, has no need of a purse.
It's five yards from Kärkölä to hell.
He who willingly gives you a finger will also give you the whole hand.
I pointed out the stars and moon to you, but all you saw was the tip of my finger.
Better a finger off than one wagging.
A sore finger and a headache are standard excuses for not going to school.
A ring on a good woman's finger is no good without a blouse on her back.
A bad knife cuts one's finger instead of the stick.
One finger can't lift a pebble.
Better a friend at court than gold on the finger.
The pain of the little finger is felt by the whole body.
You can't catch a louse with one finger.
You cannot pick up a pebble with one finger.
Someone who is pointing his finger to another person is not always aware that the four remaining fingers are pointing in his direction.
When you show the moon to a child, it sees only your finger.
He who dips his finger into honey does not dip it once.
When your neighbour is wrong you point a finger, but when you are wrong you hide.
Bandage up your finger and take a walk in the village to see how many medical people you will meet.
You can't hide behind your finger.
A rap on the ringed finger does not hurt.
Give a clown your finger he'll grasp your fist.
A single finger cannot catch fleas.
When you point your finger at someone, look where the other fingers point.
Darg-flea tell him pickeny him mustn't say him dead till him ketch pon finger nail.
Give him your finger and he will seize your hand.
Keeping the finger on the wrist.
Offer a clown your finger, and he'll take your fist.
As the wound inflames the finger, so the thought inflames the mind.
One finger alone cannot even kill a louse.
One finger alone cannot kill even a louse.
One finger does not kill a louse.
It is best to bind up the finger before it is cut.
You do not beat a drum with one finger.
Who has a habit, will never leave it even if his finger gets cut.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
Don't point your finger into a graveyard or it will drop off.
When your finger is in pain, your sight is not lazy.
A handsome finger gets the ring.
One finger canot kill a louse.
You cannot hide behind your finger.
When a finger is pointing at the moon, the fool looks at the finger.
When a finger points at the moon, the imbecile looks at the finger.
A dry finger cannot pick up salt.
If you point one accusing finger at others, three fingers will point at you.
One finger cannot lift a pebble.
Never point out the mistakes of another with a dirty finger.
Give the devil your little finger, you will be taken entirely.
Give a clown your finger, and he will take your hand.
Better finger off, nor ay warking.
A man who has one finger pointing at another has three pointing towards himself.
If one finger brought oil it soiled others.
One finger cannot remove lice from the head.
If you have one finger pointing at somebody, you have three pointing towards yourself.
If neither animal nor vegetable you be, then mineral you are. If one finger brought oil it soiled others.
Finger stink you can't cut it trow it wey.
The son does not cut his finger in cutting meat for his father.
Wet your finger in tar and soon it is all over you.
Thrust not thy finger in a fool's mouth.
When they offer you a ring, hold out your finger.
When liars enter by the city gate, in front of them there is a finger pointing at them, behind them there is a finger pointing at them.
One finger cannot lift a pebble.
Wherever Burundi points the finger, a house is built.
No one puts his finger back where it was once bitten.
I pointed out to you the stars and all you saw was the tip of my finger.
He has his finger in every pie.
The tip of a finger cannot be touched by itself.
One finger does not kill a louse.
It's better to sleep on the floor in an incense shop than in a bed in a fishmarket.
It's good dancing on another man's floor.
Because of lack of talent in dancing, the floor is blamed.
One who cannot dance blames the floor.
He that lies on the floor doesn't fall down.
Nobody gets out of the bed to sleep on the floor.
If you beat even new floor mats, dirt will come out.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you visit a place where the chief himself sits on floor.
A person who has not secured a place on the floor should not begin to look for a mat.
A dirty floor means a busy stove.
Nobody gets out of the bed to sleep on the floor.
A handstaff of holly, a buailtin of hazel,a single sheaf and a clean floor.
Firelight will not let you read fine stories, but it's warm and won't let you see the dust on the floor.
One pebble doesn't make a floor.
It is good to dance on another man's floor.
Cannot dance but blame the floor as uneven.
Everyone tries to make the water flow to his mill.
The flow of water and the future of human beings are uncertain.
In the ditch where water has flowed, it will flow again.
The rivers flow to the ocean.
Do not push the river, it will flow by itself.
Much water will flow in the danube until then.
It is easier to dam a river than to stop the flow of gossip.
If the heart is sad, tears will flow.
Let the water you cannot drink flow by.
Water that has reached its level does not flow.
A river doesn't flow through the forest without felling the trees.
The spring makes the stream flow.
The tears of a man flow into the stomach.
Tears never flow in the house of a coward.
The water can only flow thanks to the well.
A flow of words is no proof of being easy enough.
A flow will have an ebb.
A flow will have an ebb.
If Vincent begins to flow, then the cellar will be full.
Go with the flow.
Go with the flow.
Every flow has its ebb.
The flood takes him in, and the ebb takes him out.
Let what is on this side of the bank be washed out by the flood, and what is on that side of the bank be carried away by the wind.
Ebb does not follow ebb - flood is in between.
In an ant colony, the dew is a flood.
Help me during the flood, and I will help you during the drought.
It's better to return from the centre of the ford than drown in the flood.
After ebb comes flood, and friends with good.
Merchant's goods are ebb and flood.
One shower doesn't make a flood.
Love has its tides; before ebb tide you must take advantage of the flood.
A ripple of laughter is worth a flood of tears.
He who has crossed the flood knows how deep it is.
In the ant's house, the dew is a flood.
Three things it is best to avoid: a strange dog, a flood, and a man who thinks he is wise.
Every flood will have an ebb.
Whoever rides into the flood, either does not own the animal or doesn't value it.
Every flood has its ebb.
Don't lie down in low places, flood will take you, don't lie down in high places, wind will take you.
In the ant's house, the dew is a flood.
A ripple of laughter is worth a flood of tears.
In the ants' house the dew is a flood.
That my friend should be well is our wish, and that our enemies should be gone! May those friendly to you reach their goal as a ship does a friendly harbour! May your enemy, like the flood waters of a river, return to his city.
When two dogs fight over a bone, a third one carries it away.
When two elephants fight the grass gets trampled.
An egg does not fight a rock.
Dogs that fight each other will join forces against the wolf.
If two neighbors want to fight, they will find a quarrel in a straw.
The mediator in a fight gets all the blows.
When bulls fight, woe to the frogs.
A fight in your neighbor's house is refreshing.
A fight between grasshoppers is a joy to the crow.
He is truly hungry who accepts defeat in a fight over meat.
If we don't fight we remain equals, if we do fight then one of us wins.
In a fight with a fool it's a wise man who quits.
Let rats fight with each other.
If the fight is tomorrow, why then clench your fist today?
If the fight is tomorrow, then why should you clench your fist today?
Eggs should not fight stones.
If you are going out for a fight leave your best hat at home.
The lawyer will extend the frontiers of a fight.
A mother and daughter fought, and fool thought they meant it.
Do not try to fight a lion if you are not one yourself.
When elephants fight, it is the grass who suffers.
The tougher the fight, the sweeter the triumph.
He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
Life is a dogma and a fight for the dogma.
Who cannot fight, wins nought by right.
Never fight an enemy whilst it is possible to cheat him.
If you want an audience start a fight.
Rarely is a fight continued when the chief has fallen.
A good retreat is better than a poor fight.
Pray once if you are going to fight, twice if you are going to sail, and thrice if you are going to get married.
Two dogs fight for a bone and a third runs away with it.
Whoever says "let's fight" does not know who will be victorious.
Let's fight, let's fight, no one knows whom fighting would favor.
Cockroach nuh business inna fowl fight.
All threateners don't fight.
They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove they are right.
They don't swing fists when the fight is over.
Don't fight with the strong one, don't sue the rich one.
It is one thing to boast, another to fight.
The arrogant blind man picks a fight with his guide.
The fact that you have gone near the battle-field does not mean that you fought.
Don't fight a lion with a stick.
Be first at the feast, and last at the fight.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
When a very short man causes the market to break up in a big fight, bystanders ask him to stand up so that they can see how short he really is.
When two elephants fight it is the grass that suffers.
Brute strength is not the most important asset in a fight.
You have choosen your weapon, so fight.
Choose to fight, not negotiate.
We fight to enrich the spirit.
When threatened, fight.
If a warrior does not fight, he does not breathe.
Klingons are born to fight and conquer.
Beware of french people who pretend to quarrel with each other: they will join together to fight you.
A husband and wife often fight intensely at one moment and then kiss intensely at the next moment.
He who provokes a war must be sure that he knows how to fight.
He that fights and runs away, may live to fight another day.
Not the glittering weapon fights the fight, but rather the hero's heart.
To start a fight, one does not bring a knife that cuts but a needle that sews.
Fowl cock en got nuh right in bulldog fight.
When the big fish fight the shrimps must lie low.
Seek strength, not to be greater than my brother, but to fight my greatest enemy - myself.
To fight once shows bravery, but to fight all the time is stupid.
When your companions get drunk and fight, Take up your hat, and wish them good night.
Thirty-six plans of how to win the battle are not so good as one plan to withdraw from the fight.
After the fight both parties give each other a good smack.
As a snipe and a clam are entangled in a fight, a fisherman catch them both.
Fight a wolf with a flex stalk.
Fight only when you can win; move away when you cannot.
Fight poison with poison.
If you want an audience, start a fight.
Sit atop the mountain and watch the tigers fight.
A horse may take the warrior to the battlefield but can never fight.
A person who sells eggs doesn't start a fight in the market.
A regular fighter who discords peace is bound to be fought by his own anger.
Don't beat the drums of war unless you're ready to fight.
If two brothers fight over their father's land, it is a stranger who will enjoy there sweat and labour.
If you're not at the war front its easy to assume we didn't put up a good fight.
When two ageing good friends fight, it's because of an old grouch.
Never mock a fowl with raffled feathers it might have won a fight.
He that fought the lion must surely have the lion's claws in his body.
When two elephants fight, it is the grass that gets trampled.
He that fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
It requires more courage not to fight than to fight.
Fight fire with fire.
When there is no enemy it is safe to fight.
Councils of war never fight.
Either fight not with priests or beat them to death.
Without the shepherd, sheep are not a flock.
Trumpet in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cocks; bleat in a flock of goats.
There was never a scabby sheep in a flock that didn't like to have a comrade.
Eagles fly alone, but sheep flock together.
Every flock has its black sheep.
All birds will flock to a fruitful tree.
It is a sorry flock where the ewe bears the bell.
Birds of prey do not flock together.
Flies flock to the lean horse.
Once a horse is old, ticks and flies flock to it.
Birds of a feather flock together.
One scabby sheep infects the whole flock.
No flock without dog and shepherd.
It is the part of a good shepherd to shear his flock, not to skin it.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cockerels; bleat in a flock of goats.
It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
While wrangling over a quarter of pig, you can lose a flock of sheep.
Birds of a colour flock together.
One scabbed sheep will mar a whole flock.
One mangy sheep spoils a whole flock.
One scabbed sheep will infect a whole flock.
The priest loves his flock, but the lambs more than the wethers.
One scabby goat infects the flock.
There are black sheep in every flock.
It is a silly flock where the yow bears the bell.
One scabby sheep is enough to spoil the whole flock.
The sheep separated from the flock is eaten by the wolf.
One scabbed sheep will taint a whole flock.
When the flock makes an about-face, the stragglers become leaders.
There is a black sheep in every flock.
One rotten apple will spoil the whole barrel. or One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
There is a black sheep in every flock.
There tends to be a black sheep in even the whitest flock.
The flock follow the bell-wether.
A skabbed sheep syles ail the flock.
Birds of a feather flock together.
The flesh of a young animal tastes flat.
A meal without flesh is like feeding on grass.
He is as good a Catholic as Duke Alva's dog; who ate flesh in Lent.
We are all flesh and blood of the earth and so will return to the ground as rotten maggot encrusted relics.
A woman's tongue is sharp enough to pierce the toughest flesh.
Man and wife are one flesh.
A leopard's spots: or, what is bred in the babe will come out in the flesh.
When a lion cannot find the flesh to feed on, it has no choice but to eat the grass.
The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Even a dog will not eat a leg without flesh.
We are all flesh and blood.
There is danger when a dog has once tasted flesh.
Anger against a brother is felt in the flesh, not in the bone.
Impatience with your brother is in the flesh, it doesn't reach the bone.
Bones and flesh of the martyrs lie buried in earth, but their revolutionary spirit and single-hearted fidelity remain alive.
Anger against a brother is felt on the flesh, not in the bone.
Neither fish, flesh nor good red herring.
What is bred in the bone will never come out of the flesh.
Flesh of man – mends itself.
A thorn in the flesh.
Old fish and young flesh do feed men best.
What is bred in the bone will not out of the flesh.
He that never eats flesh thinks harigals a feast.
If crocodiles eat their own eggs, what would they do to the flesh of a frog?
What is bred in the bone won't out of the flesh.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh.
For wolf's flesh dog sauce.
It will not out of the flesh that is bred in the bone.
A dog that has once tasted the flesh cannot be kept from the skin.
What's bred in the bone will never out of the flesh.
I kill the boars, but another eats the flesh.
What's bred in the bone will come out in the flesh.
The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
The battle-club would not find out your name -- it would just find your flesh.
Flesh of man – mends itself.
A man should live to prove himself worth of his own flesh and blood.
A thorn in the flesh.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh.
Better have a Mouse in the pot as no flesh.
However little you think of the elephant, you can't say it won't fill a pot.
It is easier to fill twenty bellies than one pair of eyes.
Ambition never has it's fill.
Evil words fill some with astonishment.
One lie can fill a sack; a second will empty it again.
He who refuses a gift will not fill his barn.
Many words do not fill a basket .
Many words do not fill a basket.
A teacher is someone who ploughs with his tongue to fill his little bowl with rice.
There are many witty men whose brains can't fill their bellies.
A cold April the barn will fill.
Fair words don't fill the pocket.
Where God bestows an office, he provides brains to fill it.
Promises don't fill the belly.
Talk doesn't fill the stomach.
You must empty a box before you fill it again.
Saints don't fill the belly.
Work expands so as to fill the time available.
February fill dyke, be it black or be it white.
He that loves law will soon get his fill of it.
Empty words will not fill an empty stomach.
Words do not fill your purse.
Promised berries will not fill the basket.
Many words don't fill the sack.
Fine words don't fill the belly.
A man that has had his fill is no eater.
A grain does not fill a sieve, but it helps its fellow.
Good words fill not a sack.
A stolen object does not fill ones heart with joy.
If my belly is of glass, I will fill it with bread and chicken; if it is a closed cellar, I will fill it with cockroaches.
If you do not fill up a crack, you will have to build a wall.
If you fill your head with pride you will lack space for wisdom.
When your leg is sinking your whole body should fill it.
It's unworthy to dig a new pit to fill up an old one.
A little rain each day will fill the rivers to overflowing.
Promises fill no sack.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
Another man's bread will not fill your belly.
Fair words won't fill the sack.
It takes many words to fill a sack.
Martha sings well when she has had her fill.
Fine words don't fill the belly.
The cask savours of the first fill.
Fair words fill not the belly.
Fill fow, and had fow, makes a starke man.
Fill your basket one item at a time.
If the olive trees blossom in April, you'll have enough to collect them with barrels; if they bud in May, you'll have enough to fill a small measure; but if as late as June, you'll only be collecting handfuls.
If you prune in April you'll fill your barrels not with wine, but with water.
Prune the vines on the January moon if you want to fill the casks.
The laying hen says: give me feed to fill my beak and I'll give you eggs.
The summer that yields lots of pumpkins and horse radish doesn't fill the larder.
Pears, fill the chest; prunes, eat one.
Uncollected olives, left at random fill neither the saddle bag nor the little sack.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
It is a bad well that you have to fill with water.
Fair words won't fill the sack.
Empty words will not fill an empty stomach.
One must fill the pitcher while the water is flowing.
Fools and the perverse fill the lawyers' purse.
Promises must not fill the place of gifts.
A little rain each day will fill the rivers to overflowing.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
Nothing but a handful of dust will fill the eyes of man.
Your head will never fill your father's bonnet.
January chicks fill the hen house, August chicks fill the baskets.
The governor must fill your jars.
Fair words don't fill the belly.
I poured our own flour and hung our hair-sieve.
The flour tastes bitter to the mouse who has had enough.
If I peddle salt, it rains; if I peddle flour, the wind blows.
He that would stop everybody's mouth needs plenty of flour.
It is bad baking without flour and water.
If you don't want flour on your shoes, don't go into the mill.
If you don't want flour, do not get into the mill.
There will be no bread from that flour.
The dog that licks ashes is not to be trusted with flour.
I have sifted my flour and hung up the sieve.
You must contrive to bake with the flour you have.
Make good flour and you need no trumpet.
When the mouse is full, the flour tastes bitter.
He who has nothing will not eat. If you want flour, go gather chestnuts.
Rats plotting: problems with flour.
You never get clean flour from a coal sack.
You easily lend bread to the one who has flour.
When God sends flour the devil carries off the sack.
If the sieve is not shaken, his flour will not drop from it.
When the mouse is full, the flour tastes bitter.
While you still have light, grind the flour.
He whose clothes are too fine, shall go about in rags.
Beer before wine, you'll feel fine. Wine before beer, you'll feel queer.
Every one can navigate in fine weather.
Love is deed and not fine phrases.
He who wears too fine clothes, shall go about in rags.
A devil with fine manners can still carry you only to hell.
It's a fine sermon about fasting when the preacher just had lunch.
Fear is a fine spur; so is rage.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
If you're beautiful, whatever you do is fine.
Fear is a fine spur; so is rage.
Many a happy colt makes a fine horse.
Snuff at a wake is fine if there's noboby sneezing over the snuff box.
We have a fine day more often than a kiln-cast.
A fine shot never killed a bird.
Fine words don't feed cats.
If it rained macaroni, what a fine time for gluttons.
It is a fine thing to die for one's fatherland, but a still finer thing to live for it.
After bad weather comes fine weather.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Fine words don't fill the belly.
Wait until it is night before saying that it has been a fine day.
A fine cage won't feed the bird.
A beautiful wife without money is like a fine house without furniture.
Deeds are love, and not fine phrases.
Rain before seven, fine before eleven.
It is a fine thing to command, though it be only a herd of cattle.
Work the fields on a fine day, study on a rainy day.
Fun is like fine beer it is rarely enjoyable alone.
The fool sucks wisdom, as he porter sups, And cobblers grow fine speakers in their cups.
Ragged colts make fine horses.
There is no lie spun so fine, through which the truth won't shine.
A mule who goes in search of a fine set of antlers, will come back with his ears cut off.
Fine linen often conceals scabby skin.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
It is easy to sit at the helm in fine weather.
Do not mistake a goats beard for a fine stallion's tail.
Firelight will not let you read fine stories, but it's warm and won't let you see the dust on the floor.
make your hay before the fine weather leaves you.
From a broken violin do not expect fine music.
Threads do not break for being fine, but for being gouty and ill-spun.
Fine words don't fill the belly.
Silence is a fine jewel for a woman, but it is little worn.
Praise the fine day in the evening.
Rather than tell a lie to help a friend, it is better to assist him in paying the fine for his offense.
Fine words do not produce food.
A fine rain still soaks you to the bone, but no one takes it seriously.
Learning is fine clothes for the rich man, and riches for the poor man.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Mothers-in-law are fine so long as they are deaf and blind.
Fine feathers make find birds.
Fine and fine make but a slender doublet.
After rain, fine weather.
Fine dressing is a foul house, swept before the windows.
Too keen an edge does not cut, too fine a point does not pierce.
The beaten pay the fine.
An argument is fine only when there is to be a fight.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
It is not the fine, but the coarse and ill-spun that breaks.
If you want a fine wife, don't pick her on a Sunday.
On flows the time, half full still the heart of mine, coffee, smoking, all is fine.
Wait till it is night before saying it has been a fine day.
Cheerfulness, helpfulness and honesty are fine, good companions to take with you through life.
Fine words dress ill deeds.
A full belly dances better than a fine coat.
Fine words without deeds go not far.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Everywhere is fine, but best at home.
Mothers-in-law are fine so long as they are deaf and blind.
Everything new is fine.
There's no iron so hard that rust won't fret it; and there's no cloth so fine that moths won't eat it.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
After the rain, fine weather.
Some have fine eyes and can't see a jot.
An intelligent foe is better than a stupid friend.
God's friends, the priest's foe.
Build golden bridges for the flying foe.
One foe is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.
Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart.
An offer of friendship to a friend's foe is unbecoming an honorable man.
To friend and foe alike I tell them how bad she is, so that I don't have to share her with anyone.
An object of pity even to a foe.
One foe is too many and a hundred friends are too few.
Even from a foe a man may learn wisdom.
Absence is a foe to love; out of sight out of mind.
A secret foe gives a sudden blow.
He is wise who can make a friend of a foe.
Better a wise foe than a foolish friend.
Vanity has no greater foe than vanity.
Your five year old son is your instructor; at ten your slave; at fifteen your equal and after that either friend or foe.
Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart.
A courageous foe is better than a cowardly friend.
Those who wish to sing always find a song.
Gold is where you find it.
The cripple will always find a stone to kick.
Keep a thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
The mountains are never so far apart but the animals find one another.
A bird that allows itself to be caught will find a way of escaping.
History is constantly teaching, but it does not find many pupils.
He who looks for a friend without a fault will never find one.
If a woman hears that something unusual is going on in heaven, she would find a ladder to go and look.
The seeking for one thing will find another.
If two neighbors want to fight, they will find a quarrel in a straw.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll always find a use for it.
The pleasure of finding something is worth more than what you find.
Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond.
You can often find in rivers what you cannot find in oceans.
There is no beard so well shaven but another barber will find something more to shave from it.
Cold hearts can find warm words.
He that has a tongue in his head may find his way anywhere.
What you go looking for, you will find.
A blind chicken will often find an ear of corn.
Pretend you're in great danger, and you'll find out if you have any friends.
Even in the freshest of milk, you will still find hairs.
The lazy man who goes to borrow a spade says, "I hope I will not find one.”.
When you are looking for a country with no tombstones you will find yourself in the land of cannibals.
If you find the residents of a place worshipping a donkey, bring the beast some grass.
In the hangman's house you will always find a rope.
No matter how strong you are, you always find someone stronger.
The truth is like gold; keep it locked up and you will find it exactly as you first put it away.
At the bottom of the sack you will find the bill.
Find as much love as was given by your father and mother many times.
Foam will always find its way to the shore.
Underneath every bush you'll find a mud rabbit ready to bolt.
Over-intelligent people can't find friends.
If you are looking for bad luck, you will soon find it.
If you find no fish, you have to eat bread.
Before you beat the dog, find out the name of his master.
If you want to find out about the road ahead, then ask about it from those coming back.
The man dying to hang himself can always find a noose.
When a lion cannot find the flesh to feed on, it has no choice but to eat the grass.
How come that when I lost my sheep and could not find it, I was questioned; but the hyena who was found with the sheepskin is not questioned.
He that would make a fool of himself will find many to help him.
There is a remedy for everything, could men find it.
Take heed you find not what you do not seek.
A man that will fight will find a cudgel in every hedge.
Seek and ye shall find.
Journey and you will find replacement to the ones left behind.
Fire will burn itself out if it did not find anything to burn.
A poor man would like to have some fun, but he cannot find the right place.
If God bids thee draw, he will find thee a rope; if he bids thee ride, he will find thee a horse.
There is no law but has a hole in it, for those who can find it out.
He is a bad shot who cannot find an excuse.
Scratch a lover and find an enemy.
You'll not find a thrush in a hawk's nest.
You can't find stupidity in the forest.
He who wants content can't find an easy chair.
Only a heart can find the way to another heart.
Who holds his peace and gathers stones, will find a time to throw them.
If one loves the ugly, one shall find it beautiful.
If you would be in good repute, let not the sun find you in bed.
You need not find a shelter for an old ox.
Never seek the wind in the field. It is useless to try and find what is gone.
Seek and you shall find.
It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog.
He that would beat his dog can easily find a stick.
The countries you visit, the customs you find.
Who seeks a quarrel will find it near at hand.
He who is a friend of Christ, will soon find salvation.
Before you find God, you will be eaten by saints.
The best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm.
Search yourself, and you will find allah.
To find your place in life is easier than to occupy it.
Bald people can always find a comb.
He who seeks shall find.
The new boat will find the old stones.
Who looks for meat will find a bone.
Wherever you find sugar, you'll find ants.
If you get lost in an icelandic forest, simply stand up and you will find your way.
A good backside will easily find a bench to sit on.
In Polizzi you'll find water, fog, kites, priests with children, commissions and delegates.
Love will find a way. Indifference will find an excuse.
Love will find a way.
If you can not find peace within yourself, it is useless to look elsewhere.
If you ever need a helping hand you'll find one at the end of your arm.
You find everything when you are spring cleaning.
He that has the devil on his neck must find him work.
Don't find fault with what you don't understand.
A lucky man can stumble upon a treasure while an unlucky one can't even find a mushroom.
If you throw nettles into your neighbors garden you will find them growing in your own.
The wolf loves the fog.
He disappeared like a grey donkey in the fog.
In Polizzi you'll find water, fog, kites, priests with children, commissions and delegates.
For every fog in march there's a frost in may.
The house of envy lies in the lowest hollows, golden, sunless, breathed upon by no wind, grim and filled full of inert chill, and lacking warmth, is always roiled in fog.
A rowing stane gathers nae fog.
A low fog leaves good weather.
You cannot clear fog with a fan.
A fog cannot be dispelled by a fan.
Married folk are like rats in a trap - fain to get others in, but fain to be out themselves.
Such things happen even to better folk.
The conversation of the wise concerns ideas; that of the intelligent is about ideas; the common folk talk about food.
Young folk may dee, auld folk maun dee.
Rich folk have many friends.
Other times, other folk.
Misterfull folk must not be mensfull.
Bread and cheese is gude to eat when folk can get nae ither meat.
If the Devil were dead, folk would do little for God's sake.
Young folk, silly folk; old folk, cold folk.
There's nothing so queer as folk.
Live and let live. There's nothing so queer as folk.
Appear in your own colours, that folk may know you.
Auld folk are twice bairns.
There's muckle ado when muirland folk ride.
Poverty is a shirt of fire.
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
There's no smoke without fire.
There is no smoke without fire.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
The tears of the roasting meat kindle the fire even more.
No smoke without fire.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
Without wood the fire would die.
One piece of wood will not make a fire.
You may well have caught a bird, but have you a fire to roast it on?
If the hill is on fire the grasshoppers are roasted.
If you have a tail of straw, then keep away from the fire.
The fire cannot be put out with your hands.
A distant fire does not burn.
Base terms are bellows to a slackening fire.
You cannot put a fire out with spit.
When fire is applied to a stone it cracks.
You don't put a wooden pot on the fire twice.
When there's fire, dry and wet burn together.
In winter a fire is better than a muscat blossom.
Where there is no fire, no smoke rises.
The same fire purifies gold and consumes straw.
To set fire to the wood, you need the help of the wind.
When a king is about to lose his power his orders burn more intensely than fire.
Keep fire away from straw.
Don't set the attic on fire just because you didn't catch any mice.
Better ice that melts than fire that extinguishes.
Pregnancy and fire cannot be kept secret.
He that will have fire must bear with smoke.
Soon fire, soon ashes.
Blood boils without fire.
Fire drives the wasp out of its nest.
The one whose belly isn't full of straw isn't afraid of fire.
It is not the fire in the fireplace which warms the house, but the couple who get along well.
Kif is like fire; a little warms, a great deal burns.
It is the one who lies by a fire who feels the heat.
He who has a fever is not shown to the fire.
Fire purges everything.
You cannot hide the smoke of the hut you set on fire.
the remedy of fire is fire.
If you are in a boat you are more afraid of fire than you are of water.
It is useful to first see the spark before the fire.
Fire and gunpowder are not bedfellows.
Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight.
How can you put out a fire set on a cart-load of firewood with only a cup of water.
A real friend takes the hand of his friend in overwhelming worry and fire.
A warm fire is better than any delicious food.
A warm fire is better than delicious cooked rice.
If a forest catches fire, both the dry and the wet will burn up.
Fire, fire's better than rice.
Clouds do not always mean rain, but smoke is a sure sign of fire.
When you see a rat running in a fire then what it's running away from is hotter than fire.
The passions are like fire and water: good servants but bad masters.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Kindle not a fire that you cannot extinguish.
A little wind kindles, much puts out the fire.
Out of the frying pan into the fire.
There is no smoke without fire.
Today it may be a fire, tomorrow it will be ashes.
Fire will burn itself out if it did not find anything to burn.
The scoffer's own house is often on fire.
Where there is smoke there is fire.
Love, fire, a cough, the itch, and gout are not to be concealed.
Fire is a good servant but a bad master.
It is easier to build two hearths than always to keep fire on one.
It is a poor village that has neither smoke nor fire.
Do it as if there was fire in your skin.
When everybody's house is on fire go home and look at your own chimney.
Sometimes you have to throw yourself into the fire to escape from the smoke.
Where there is smoke there is fire.
Little chips kindle fire, and big logs sustain it.
You may keep yourself safe from fire, but not from a bad man.
On a thief, the hat's on fire.
Eat fire and your mouth burn; live on credit and your pride will burn.
Water after does not quench a fire at hand.
To fall out of the frying-pan into the fire.
Every glowworm is not a fire.
Any water will put out fire.
He who has a straw tail is always in fear of its catching fire.
Dirty water will quench fire.
Fire is not quenched with fire.
It is no time to play chess when the house is on fire.
The smoke of my own house is better than another man's fire.
When there is a fire in the neighbourhood carry water to your own house.
When your neighbor's house is on fire, carry water to your own.
A little fire burns up a great deal of corn.
Even foul water will quench fire.
Where there is fish, there is water.
There is no need for fish in an empty pond.
Neither fish nor meat.
Even small fish, are fish.
If an eel is with fish, he shows his tail; if he is with snakes, he shows his head.
The twig that falls in the water will never become a fish.
When the water rises, the fish eat the ants; when the water falls, the ants eat the fish.
From all the fish in the pot you can only make one soup.
A rotten fish pollutes the whole kitchen.
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
he makes the water muddy to fish.
Even a fish wouldn't get into trouble if it kept its mouth shut.
At high tide the fish eat ants; at low tide the ants eat fish.
There is one fish in the pond, and ten anglers on the bank.
To fish in troubled waters.
Different fields, different grasshoppers; different seas, different fish.
You cannot pull a fish out of the pond without work.
On a fishing lull, even a crayfish is fish.
A child without a mother is like a fish in shallow water.
No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim.
When you are crossing over a river you might be eaten by crocodiles, but don't let yourself get bitten by the little fish.
Fish don't get caught in deep water.
Strike a match above the sea of opinions and the fish all swim away.
When the fish gets rotten, it all starts from the head.
The big fish is caught with big bait.
The fish, seeing the water has dried up, struggles mightily in the mud.
Don't butter the skillet before catching the fish.
One who waits patiently will catch a big fish.
He who burns his mouth on the soup will blow on a cold fish dish.
Life? That is a candle in the wind; frost upon a roof; the twitching of the fish in a pan.
The friendship of water and fish.
The company of the wicked is like living in a fish market; one becomes used to the foul odor.
If you are not a fish, how can you know if the fish are happy?
Anything with scales counts as fish.
A fish with teeth tastes the same as fish without.
If the fish comes out of the river to tell you that the crocodile has one eye, you should believe it.
There is a time to fish and a time to dry nets.
Only live fish swim up stream.
Fish or cut bait.
It's all right to drink like a fish if you drink what a fish drinks.
If you swear you will catch no fish.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
There is better fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
Make not the sauce till you have caught the fish.
When asked, "What news from the sea?” The fish replied "I have a lot to say, but my mouth is full of water.”.
A fish should swim thrice: in water, in sauce, and in wine.
A monk in his cloister, a fish in the water, a thief in the gallows.
There are as many good fish in the sea as ever came out of it.
There are finer fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
It is not fish until it is on the bank.
There are fish in the sea better than have ever been caught.
The seagull thinks it is an act of kindness to give the fish a lift in the air.
The net of the sleeper catches fish.
The fisherman fishes in troubled water.
Big fish are fished in big rivers.
From great rivers come great fish.
A fool went to fish, but lost his fishing-basket.
Don't bargain for fish which are still in the water.
Fish and guests smell when they are three days old.
The cat would eat fish, but would not wet her feet.
I have a lot to say, said the fish, but my mouth is full of water.
He who sleeps catches no fish.
It is not necessary to fish up every bucket that falls into the well.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
A rotting fish begins to stink at the head.
Go to the sea if you would fish well.
The fish rots from the head.
Guest and fish stinks at third day.
The fish does not go after the hook, but after the bait.
A cat likes to eat fresh fish but it will not go into the water.
The fish sees the bait not the hook; a man sees not the danger - only the profit.
He fishes in troubled waters.
The fish that can see that its water is getting shallower, cannot be stranded.
Dont make sauce before catching fish.
The fish don't see the water.
Fish bite best on a golden hook.
Catch fish two hands.
Nothing is so clean as a fish.
Ebery day a fishing-day, but no ebery day fe ketch fish.
Fry de bigh fish fust, te lilly one after.
All kind of fish eat man, only shark get blame.
A peasant between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats.
He who sleeps cannot catch fish.
He who does not love their national language is worse than a putrid fish.
If you want to eat freshly caught fish, you don't want to have a tight purse.
The fish was so fresh that it was being cooked while its tail was still in the sea.
The pool has dried up, and the fish is in trouble.
All is fish that comes to the net.
She is fond of him–on the side where the pocket hangs.
Whoever is fond of cream should should take the cow around with him.
The devil is fond of his own.
He's a fool that's fond.
Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do.
Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.
The devil is so fond of his son that he put out his eye.
Fond of lawsuits, little wealth; fond of doctors, little health; fond of friars, little honour.
Women are always better the following year.
Those who are in the following of the prince of everlastingness and God of life, sing with joy.
Good leading makes good following.
A wrong step by the leader is a warning for those following.
It's by following his friends that a crab lost its hiding place.
A farmer does not boast that he has had a good harvest until his stock of yams lasts till the following harvest season.
Day doesn't come without night following.
We have to fight for our freedom as long as it takes, and we shall not mind the death following our struggle for independence.
In the strong following wind. (Getting drunk)
Hurriedness is not necessarily the daughter of foolishness, and delay is not necessarily the daughter of cowardice.
The mouth of fools pours out foolishness.
To make an error is human, keep doing it is foolishness.
Don't be foolish and awe struck, because foolishness is telling but cursing doesn't hit home.
Foolishness first, then wisdom.
The heart of fools proclaims foolishness.
You can beat a fool half to death but you can't beat the foolishness out of him.
A man and a goat can be friends but it would be foolishness for the goat to pay the first visit.
Old age is no protection against foolishness.
Good nature without prudence is foolishness.
A clever head, but given to foolishness.
The mouth of fools pours out foolishness.
A person slow to anger has great understanding; one with a quick temper exalts foolishness.
Where two women rule a hearth-fire, the thatch may burn with the sparks flying.
The sparrow flying behind the hawk thinks the hawk is fleeing.
When you see gossamer flying, be sure the air is drying.
There is no flying from fate.
Build golden bridges for the flying foe.
Make a silver bridge for a flying enemy.
Nothing is ever well done in a hurry, except flying from the plague or from quarrels, and catching fleas.
You can stop a bird from flying over you, but you can't stop it building a nest.
Roast geese don't come flying into your mouth.
For a flying enemy make a silver bridge.
Flying from the bull he fell into the river.
In Morocco never be surprised. If you see a donkey flying, just say Allah is capable of anything.
You cannot prevent the birds of sorrow from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from building nests in your hair.
You cannot stop birds from flying over your head, but you can stop them nesting in your hair.
The sweet flying ants will never be birds.
You can't keep the birds from flying over your head, but you can keep them from building a nest in your hair.
It is good to make a bridge of gold to a flying enemy.
For the flying enemy a golden bridge.
No flying without wings.
You can't prevent a bird from flying over your head, but you can prevent him from making a nest in your head.
Birds agree when flying down, but do not agree when flying up.
A flying crow always catches something.
Flying birds have no master.
There is no flying without wings.
Make a bridge of silver for the flying enemy.
Possessions are flying birds -- they never find a place to settle.
Ninazu, a bird flying around is your share.
No flying from fate.
Work for nought makes folks dead lazy.
Threatened folks eat bread.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
Different strokes for different folks.
Folks like the truth that hits their neighbor.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
Good folks are scarce.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do.
Threatened folks may live the longest: they take numerous precautions.
Different strokes for different folks.
Idle folks have the least leisure.
Fools are like other folks as long as they are silent.
Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury.
Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do.
Let me go warm, and folks may laugh.
Biting and scarting is Scots folks Wooing.
Young folks think old folks to be fools, but old folks know young folks to be fools.
Tired folks are quarrelsome.
Different strokes for different folks.
Other folks' cares kill the ass.
Let me go warm, and folks may laugh.
Who could shut up folks' expression and language?
The great folks and dogs know no relationship.
Threatened folks may live the longest: they take numerous precautions.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
Good folks are scarce.
Idle folks lack no excuses.
Poor folks are glad of porridge.
God speaks a foreign tongue.
A foreign language is more easily learned in the kitchen than at school.
Better an ugly duckling from your own village than a beauty from foreign parts.
The foreign person is blind and the killed person has no chance.
Smoke in your own country is purer than fire in a foreign land.
Rather free in a foreign place than a slave back home.
Foreign places are nice enough, but home is sweeter.
Foreign bread is good for your son.
Gold rain drops on a foreign country,wherelse rain of stones drops on our country,but our country is better.
He boasts, with foreign feathers.
In foreign countries money goes by the way.
A foreign land is a land of wolves.
You cannot break through a wall with your forehead.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity.
Whatever is written on the forehead is always seen.
Do not remove a fly from your friend's forehead with a hatchet.
Death considers not the fairest forehead.
Your friend, one doesn't stare at his forehead, one stares at his stomach.
Your friend, one doesn't stare at his forehead, one stares at his stomach.
To remove a fly from a friend's forehead never use a hatchet.
Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead.
In the forehead and the eye, the lecture of the mind doth lie.
If the best man's faults were written on his forehead, it would make him pull his hat over his eyes.
The money marries the daughter even if she had an eye in the middle of forehead.
The buzzing of the flies does not turn them into bees.
Laws catch flies but lets hornets go free.
A bad rumour flies on wings.
Flies know well the sweet seller's beard.
A cow that has no tail should not try to chase away flies.
Where flies are eaten, eat them.
Happiness flies away from those who want it most.
Woman is like your shadow; follow her, she flies; fly from her, she follows.
Even flies have ears.
Flies will easily fly into the honey; their problem is how to get out.
Flies will not land on a boiling pot.
Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour.
People seek out big shots as flies seek out the elephant's tail.
A spoken word is not a sparrow. Once it flies out, you can't catch it.
Haste is good only for catching flies.
Love flies away and the pain remains.
The closed mouth doesn't catch any flies.
He flies into the flame, the summer insect.
Time flies when you are among friends.
A bird only flies as high as his wings take him.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
Don't ignore the small things - the kite flies because of its tail.
He who makes himself honey, will be eaten by the flies.
Even the lion must defend himself against the flies.
The sick man is vexed with the flies on the wall.
The wise bird flies lowest.
He that flies high falls low down.
Flies plough the ox' horns.
In a closed mouth the flies can't come in.
Where there is butter there are flies.
A shut mouth catches no flies.
Flies don't light on a boiling pot.
Flies flock to the lean horse.
In the war of love who flies conquers.
Let every one keep off the flies with his own tail.
Make yourself honey and the flies will eat you.
Big flies break the spider's web.
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.
A closed mouth catches neither flies nor food.
He who keeps his mouth shut doesn't get any flies to eat.
More flies mean more food.
More flies are taken with a drop of honey than a tun of vinegar.
I am not here to catch flies.
Eagles catch no flies.
More flies are caught with a spoonful of syrup than with a barrel full of vinegar.
Nothing is haste but catching flies.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
They are flies that are born of a wasp.
You know a bird from the way he flies.
Word is not a sparrow: flies out, can't catch it.
The grasshopper flies about, but the kingfisher watches him.
Honey catches most flies.
Time flies.
Flies' legs, like the tongue of critics, land on whatever they find.
Flies can't fall in a tight-closed pot.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
God swats flies for an animal that has no tail.
If you sleep with targs, you'll wake up with glob flies.
Pay no heed to glob flies.
A bird flies high above and its funeral is performed on the ground.
The injured animal is covered with flies.
When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
Every bird flies with its own wings.
Time flies like an arrow.
Flies never infest an egg without cracks.
Leave a bit of the tail to whisk off flies.
A spoonful of honey will catch more flies than a gallon of vinegar.
The one who hasn't strength to pound yams pretends to drive away flies from the yams.
A man has to hold his mouth open a long time before a roasted partridge flies into it.
He who defects on the way finds flies on his way back.
The busy man has few idle visitors: to the boiling pot the flies come not.
Eagles don't catch flies.
More flies are caught with honey than with molasses.
You catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
Make yourself all honey and the flies will devour you.
A close mouth catches no flies.
While the dogs yelp, the hare flies to the wood.
According to his pinions the bird flies.
More flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
A closed mouth catch's no flies.
A drop of honey catches more flies than a hogshead of vinegar.
When misfortune comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
In times of emergency the devil eats flies.
Eagles don't catch flies.
Good news is rumored and bad news flies.
Shut your mouth and you'll catch no flies.
No flies get into a shut mouth.
Make yourself honey and the flies will eat you.
A woman is a flower in a garden; her husband is the fence around it.
The bee gets honey from the same flower where the snake sucks her poison.
There is no flower that lasts ten days and no might lasts ten years.
Man is the flower of the earth.
To an optimist every weed is a flower; to a pessimist every flower is a weed.
A ruler without a nation is like a flower without the sun.
From the withered tree, a flower blooms.
Cheerfulness is the very flower of health.
I would like to break off the flower, but the branch is too high.
The flower has no front or back.
Flourish like a flower, but may your life be longer.
One flower doesn't bring spring.
Spring won't come from one flower.
An old man in love is like a flower in winter.
Be bad to the bad; good to the good; be a flower to other flowers and a thorn to other thorns.
The scent of every flower is short lived.
He that paints a flower does not give it perfume.
Patience is a flower that grows not in everyone's garden.
A good bee will not go to a drooping flower.
If you are not a flower, don't be a thorn.
When peaches flower and ripen, days and nights have the same length.
A person born to be a flower pot will not go beyond the porch.
Not-speaking is the flower.
There is no flower that remains red for ten days, and no power that lasts for ten years.
A beautiful flower is incomplete without its leaves.
A good bee never lands on a fallen flower.
A watched flower never blooms, while a carelessly planted willow grows into shade.
Add a flower to a bouquet.
Many a flower is born to blush unseen.
If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower.
A true wife is her husband's flower of beauty.
Spring will not come with one flower.
Beauty is a fading flower.
The old one who is loved is like a winter flower.
A person born to be a flower pot will not go beyond the porch.
One flower does not make a garland.
It is not every flower that smells sweet.
From the same flower the bee extracts honey and the wasp gall.
Beauty fades like a flower.
A bee does not touch a withered flower.
A tree that doesn't flower in April, won't flower at all.
There is no wormwood that comes into flower and does not wither.
He has drunk the juice of the flower of the wild aloe.
Beauty, unaccompanied by virtue, is as a flower without perfume.
He who paints the flower cannot paint its fragrance.
No rose, but a flower after all.
You are like a flower in the middle of nettles.
Even the most beautiful flower withers in time.
As delicate as a flower.
Every Flower must grow through Dirt.
A fragrant bloom is not necessarily a beautiful flower; an orator may not be a crackerjack.
A bee is always behind the flower.
Spring doesn't come with just a single flower.
Every flower has a different smell.
Life begins at forty.
A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
In America half an hour is forty minutes.
He that at twenty is not, at thirty knows not, and at forty has not, will never be, nor ever know, nor ever have.
On Saint Candelora day, if it's snowing or raining, there'll be another forty days of winter.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
He that is not gallant at twenty, strong at thirty, rich at forty, or experienced at fifty, will never be gallant, strong, rich, or prudent.
A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
St. Swithin's Day, if thou dost rain, for forty days it will remain; St. Swithin's Day, if thou be fair, for forty days 'twill rain no more.
A horse which is tamed at forty is only good for resurrection day.
Life begins at forty.
A cup of coffee commits one to forty years of friendship.
They made the garlic a bride, its smell did not come out for forty days.
A madman drops a stone in a well, but forty wise men cannot take it out.
A full pistol scares one person, an emty one scares forty people.
He who at twenty understands nothing, at thirty knows nothing, and at forty has nothing, will lead a wretched old age.
A madman drops a stone in a well, but forty wise men cannot take it out.
Saint Swithun's day, if thou be fair, for forty days it will remain; Saint Swithun's day, if thou bring rain, for forty days it will remain.
Forty is the old age of youth; fifty is the youth of old age.
Do not treat your loved one like a swinging door: you are fond of it but you push it back and forth.
Have faith - God calls forth life even from eggs.
The mountains are in labour, and bring forth a mouse.
A young ewe and an old ram, every year bring forth a lamb.
The clash of ideas brings forth the spark of truth.
Worry is like a rocking chair it swings you back and forth and it takes you nowhere.
Boast not of tomorrow, for you know not what the day may bring forth.
No one knows what a day may bring forth.
Good repute is like the cypress: once cut, it never puts forth leaf again.
The hasty bitch brings forth blind whelps.
Cast not forth the old water while the new come in.
Who ventures forth, succeeds.
April showers bring forth May flowers.
The mountain labored and brought forth a mouse.
Wine brings forth the truth.
Now it rains, and again the sun shines forth brightly in the heavens.
The bitch in her haste brings forth blind puppies.
The mountain has brought forth a mouse.
A little subtleness is better than a lot of force.
"force me, and I shall commit no sin,” said the girl.
You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money.
Where force rules, justice does not exist.
Be a custom good or bad, a peasant will have it continue in force.
When force is imposed, the law is a joke.
Voluntary is better than force.
Community is not made by force.
Every tree feels the force of the wind.
Reason succeeds where force fails.
No stopping the force of a going wheel by hand.
Do more things by wisdom than by force.
One should do more by wisdom than by force.
Sometimes the rain might force a man more than once to seek shelter under the same tree.
When force and reason are in conflict, force of reason prevails and being reasonable isn't enough.
Contrivance is better than force.
Advertising is the driving force of business.
You cannot force water up a hill.
No matter how hidden a force is, it will attract some kind of resistance.
Force may lead to agreement, but truth will lead to conviction.
Negotiate with your enemy whilst you are a strong and formidable force, and he will always fear and respect you, but negotiate at the brink of defeat, and he will trample you down.
The tree breaks that takes all the force of the wind.
Too much force breeds suspicion.
Force is no argument.
If it jams, force it. If it breaks, it probably needed fixing anyway.
You may force a man to shut his eyes, but not to sleep.
You may force a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink.
You can't make something beautiful with force.
He who has not enough wit in the head, should force to replace it in the leg.
Fear may force a man to cast beyond the moon.
You can't use your hand to force the sun to set.
If it goes, it goes, don't force it.
Where force prevails, right perishes.
What force cannot do ingenuity may.
The force which a body at rest exercises on a body in motion impinging upon it.
Gently, not by force.
Force not favours on the unwilling.
Stupidity is a force unto itself.
The force of anger is broken by a soft answer.
A man who uses force is afraid of reasoning.
A drop hollows out the stone not by force, but falling many times. (original latin proverb).
The force which a body at rest exercises on a body in motion impinging upon it. [Stolid immobility or masterly inactivity.].
Hospitality is one form of worship.
First learn, and then form opinions.
The extreme form of passionate love is secret love.
Go out from your village: don't let your village go out form you.
Imitation is the highest form of flattery.
Attack is the best form of defence.
A woman has the form of an angel, the heart of a serpent, and the mind of an ass.
It is easy to cut thongs form other men's leather.
Skill and assurance form an invincible combination.
A good deed is the best form of prayer.
Attack is the best form of defense.
Using writings to form a community.
Love is love no matter whence it comes or in what form.
To form a dog is the ruin of education.
It takes a tree ten years to mature; it takes a man one hundred years to form.
To form a dog is the ruin of education.
Happiness is a form of courage.
Advice, like water, takes the form of the vessel which it is poured into.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
The village slatternly wench has the form of a dove, the heart of a fox, and the mind of an toad.
The most praised form of fluency is silence when talk isn't wise.
In the looking-glass we see our form, in wine the heart.
Envy is the truest form of flattery.
Many small brooks will form a big river.
The have always returns to her form.
Attack is the best form of defence.
Poverty is death in another form.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Outward appearances assuming the form of virtues.
The apple never falls far form the tree.
Imiation is the highest form of flattery.
Good form is fragile.
Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.
Anger without power is folly.
To marry one is a duty; twice a folly; thrice is madness.
Beauty and folly are constant companions.
Where vain-glory reigns, folly is prime counsellor.
Beauty and folly go often in company.
It is a great point of wisdom to find out one's own folly.
Truth and folly dwell in the wine-cask.
Nobody so wise but has a little folly to spare.
A man with a loud laugh makes truth itself seem folly, Truth is great and will win out.
To the world wisdom is folly; to the wise the world is foolish.
Profit by the folly of others.
To marry once is a duty, twice a folly, and three times - madness.
Beauty and folly are often companions.
Folly is the most incurable of maladies.
It is sheer folly to expect justice from the unprincipled.
Youth is a folly; maturity, a struggle; old age a remorse.
Cunning comes to an end, what remains is folly.
Cunning comes to an end, what remains is folly.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
As a dog returns to his vomit, so a fool returns to his folly.
There is no way to teach a machine wisdom after folly.
Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will be like him yourself.
To err is human; to keep it up is folly.
Beauty and folly are old companions.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
One man's folly is another man's fortune.
Answer a fool according to his folly.
Knowledge is the sister of folly.
Profit by the folly of others.
Anger begins with folly, and ends with repentance.
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.
Wit is folly unless a wise man hath the keeping of it.
It is folly to drown on dry land.
It is folly to fear what one cannot avoid.
It is folly to take a thorn out of another's foot and put it into your own.
Where Nature stops folly begins.
Where honour grows a span, folly grows an ell.
It seems like folly to give comfits to a cow [Mod] – It can be fun anyway.
The malady that is more incurable is folly.
Folly and learning often dwell together.
Wisdom is folly unless a wise man guides it.
What use is wisdom when folly reigns?
Folly hath eagle's wings, but the eyes of an owl.
Whoever falls sick of folly, is long in getting cured.
Folly is the product of all countries and ages.
No folly like being in love.
Tis folly to love fetters, though they be of gold.
Natural folly is bad enough, but learned folly is intolerable. (1732)
If a rich man eats a snake people say, "This is wisdom!" If a poor man eats a snake people say, "This is folly!"
To err is human; to keep it up is folly.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.
Beauty and folly are often companions.
A fool talks of folly.
He who asks a question may be a fool for five minutes; he who asks no questions stays a fool forever.
An arrow can be pulled out of a wound, but a hurtful word stays forever in your heart.
When wood breaks it can be repaired, but ivory breaks forever.
The steed does not retain its speed forever.
Youth sheds many a skin. The steed does not retain its speed forever.
One can't die if he's brave. Even when he die his name lasts forever.
You cannot be lucky forever.
The one who throws the stone forgets; the one who is hit remembers forever.
If you see Mt. Fuji, a hawk, and an eggplant on New Year's Day, you will be forever blessed.
He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
Long is not forever.
He who heeds the first word of his wife must listen forever to the second.
Greed keeps men forever poor, even the abundance of this world will not make them rich.
Plan your life as though you were going to live forever, but live today as if you were going to die tomorrow.
A pig bought on credit is forever grunting.
Holyday time will not last forever.
One has to face fear or forever run from it.
The words of God are not like the oak leaf which dies and falls to the earth, but like the pine tree which stays green forever.
Nature decays, but latinum lasts forever.
A disease that fails to finish us off will continue being condemned forever.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in debt to those who are kind.
Truth cannot be hidden forever beneath evil.
Time lost is lost forever.
A good man never stays in the grave forever, he always has chance to come back.
The ancestors may annoy you but don't make a mistake of annoying them back, they may annoy you forever.
Even a horn can be stopped from fighting and made to sing forever.
The fish that dirties the water will forever swim in dirty water.
Learn as you'd live forever; live as you'd die tomorrow.
Forever is a long bargain.
Work as if you were to live forever; live as if you were to die tomorrow.
The good that you fail to do is gone forever.
Once a person cheats in an exam, forever people will distrust him.
An ailing woman lives forever.
Give a man a fish, and he'll eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and he'll eat forever.
The money and fortune will be drunken up soon, but the begging goes on forever.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
A happy memory is a joy forever.
He who asks may be a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever. .
Work as if you were to live forever live as if you were to die tomorrow.
Fortune and flowers do not last forever.
A word written stays forever than hundred spoken work.
Even though the old man is strong and hearty, he will not live forever.
No fly gets into a shut mouth.
Saints fly only in the eyes of their disciples.
The fly has no pity for the thin man.
Woman is like your shadow; follow her, she flies; fly from her, she follows.
A blind man swallows many a fly.
Flies will easily fly into the honey; their problem is how to get out.
It's better to fly and stay alive than to die a hero.
Eagles fly alone, but sheep flock together.
It is easy to see the fly on the other person's nose, while ignoring the horse on your own.
A day-old pigeon cannot fly over a mountain pass.
Words have no wings but they can fly many thousands of miles.
Although the snake does not fly it has caught the bird whose home is in the sky.
The spider and the fly can't make a deal.
The fly on the back of a water buffalo thinks that it's taller than the buffalo.
Fat geese don't fly far.
Don't imitate the fly before you have wings.
Do not make an elephant out of a fly.
The idiot who has his eye on your wife is like a blood sucking fly.
A fly will not get into a closed mouth.
You cannot fly with wings made of butter.
Ashes always fly back in the face of him who throws them.
The wise are as rare as eagles that fly high in the sky.
Falcons don't fly after cage-birds.
A fly does not mind dying in coconut cream.
For a fly to die on an ulcer is not bad.
As though a bird had flown up from under your feet.
The miracle is not to fly in the air, or to walk on the water, but to walk on the earth.
Do not remove a fly from your friend's forehead with a hatchet.
Fences mean nothing to those who can fly.
Like an ostrich: cannot fly and cannot bear burdens.
You must lose a fly, to catch a trout.
They wrangle about an egg, and let the hens fly away.
Don't fly till your wings are feathered.
Pigeons are taken when crows fly at pleasure.
Proverbs are like butterflies; some are caught and some fly away.
‘what a dust we kick up,' as the fly said to the cart wheel.
Of small account is a fly till it gets into the eye.
Do not compare a fly with an elephant.
Every fly has its shadow.
He avoided the fly and swallowed the spider.
Shavings fly where wood is being chopped.
A fly, a harlot, a beggar, a rat, and gusty wind; the village-boss and the tax collector – these seven are always annoying to others.
Even a fly has its anger.
Even a fly has its spleen.
The fly that has no one to advise it follows the corpse into the grave.
Don't spill blood until the raven has flown over.
Birds of the same colour fly to the same place.
Chip neber fly far from de block.
A greedy mek fly follow coffin go a hole.
A fly that lands on a carabao feels itself to be higher than the carabao.
If you are looking for a fly in your food it means that you are full.
The fly flutters about the candle till at last it gets burnt.
The fly flutters around the candle till it gets burnt.
God gives birds their food, but they must fly for it.
He wants to fly before he has wings.
Roasted pigeons will not fly into one's mouth.
Where the wasp has passed the fly sticks fast.
A spoken word is like a sparrow that once has flown away, cannot be caught again.
When wood is chopped, woodchips will fly.
A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in.
Laws, like the spider's web, catch the fly and let the hawk go free.
His wit got wings and would have flown, But poverty still kept him down.
Although the snake does not fly, it has caught the hornbill, whose home is in the sky.
The hurrying fly falls into the milk.
When a heart is on fire, sparks always fly out of the mouth.
Luck is like having a rice dumpling fly into your mouth.
Falling hurts least those who fly low.
A fly that falls on your wound is more important.
A lazy fly cannot have a taste of a fresh wound.
A worm cannot kill a fly.
Though the sky belongs to the bird it can't fly when it's raining.
The time to slap a king is the time when a fly touches on his cheek.
The sky is wide enough for two birds to fly without their wings touching.
The mouth that eats should not talk, for it risks swallowing a fly.
The fly had life even before the dog had its wounds.
A butterfly thinks itself a bird because it can fly.
A bird may fly off the earth and land on an anthill, but it will still be on the ground.
Some birds are not meant to be caged there feathers are to blight and there meant to fly.
He who pursues a hatched bird teaches it how to fly.
Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them.
The bird will not fly into your arrow.
The higher they fly, the harder they fall.
Put cream and sugar on a fly and it tastes very much like a black raspberry.
You can't fly with one wing.
Pigs might fly lest they had wings.
Give her bells and let her fly.
No matter how high a bird can fly, it still has to look for food on the ground.
It is discreditable to fly from a living enemy, or to abuse a dead one.
Behave like the chameleon: look forward and observe behind.
To stumble is not falling down but it is to go forward.
Look to the past to help us move forward in the future.
The secret to success is to walk forward.
He pushes it away with the hand, but pulls it forward with the foot.
Seeing the Kremlin stars - going forward braver.
If thy strength will serve, go forward in the ranks; if not, stand still.
Only moving forward.
A boat doesn't go forward if each one is rowing their own way.
You cannot propel yourself forward by patting yourself on the back.
He who cannot rest, cannot work; he who cannot let go, cannot hold on; he who cannot find footing, cannot go forward.
Always put your best foot forward.
When the blind man carries the lame man, both go forward.
Unite to move forward.
How good to be forward, but how bad to be too forward.
It's good to be forward, but bad to be too impudent.
We go forward in order to go backwards.
Care for the land, care for the people, go forward.
You cannot propel yourself forward by patting yourself on the back.
We must go back and reclaim our past so we can move forward.
A boat cannot go forward if each rows his own way.
Unite to move forward.
Prudent pauses forward business.
The truth comes forward in wine.
He that will not look forward must look behind.
"He who does not go forward, loses ground." or "He who does not accomplish anything, is a failure/has shortcomings.”.
I have two masters -- God and the devil; I work for the devil until lunch then I follow the Lord.
The wise understand by themselves, fools follow the reports of others.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
Every joy will follow in grief's footsteps.
Woman is like your shadow; follow her, she flies; fly from her, she follows.
Events follow one another like the days of the week.
Listen to all, 'plucking a feather from every passing goose,' but follow no one absolutely.
Words are good when works follow.
Follow the road and you will reach an inn.
If you are a mouse don't follow frogs.
The wise man's wealth lies in good deeds that follow ever after him.
Wherever the head goes, the tail will follow.
It is advantageous to follow advice, for you will succeed in life.
If you follow the lead of the cockerel, you'll be led to the poulterer.
The best thing God did was to make one day follow another.
God's greatest act was to make one day follow another.
Follow the saint no further than his doorstep.
One does not follow the footprints in the water.
Karma and shadows follow one everywhere.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
Do not walk behind us, we may not lead; do not walk in front of us, we may not follow; walk besides us, so that we may guide each other.
A joyful evening may follow a sorrowful morning.
Nature will come through the claws, and the hound will follow the hare.
Keep the bone and the dog will follow.
Follow the river and you will get to the sea.
The wise understand; fools follow the reports of others.
To follow everyone is wrong, to follow no one is worse.
When you follow the old man, the dog will not bite.
A greedy mek fly follow coffin go a hole.
Blood follow vein.
Where the hands move, there let the eyes follow.
If you can't use your eyes, follow your nose.
A sheep's wool sky means wind's to follow, either a Levant or a West wind or a Sirocco.
Be quick to follow up an advantage.
After honor and state follow envy and hate.
Where misfortune befals injuries follow.
Evils follow each other.
When the blind leads the way, woe to those who follow.
If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow.
One doesn't follow a wild beast into its lair.
If the camel once gets his nose in a tent, his body will soon follow.
If the camel once get his nose in a tent, the body will soon follow.
Although the horse is stupid, it does not follow that the rider is stupid.
To follow the path, look to the master, follow the master, walk with the master, see through the master, become the master.
Follow bees and you will get honey.
If you are a flag follow the wind.
Follow the villagers when you are in the new village.
Snakes follow the way of serpents.
When a deceiving man tells you to climb a tree, tell him to climb it first. If he finds a comfortable spot you can follow him.
Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere.
Follow the good and learn their ways.
When a large vessel has opened a way it is easy for a small one to follow.
Follow the liar right to his door.
It is the path of the needle that the thread is accustomed to follow.
If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow.
All war follow a demonstrate failure of difficulty diplomacy.
A dog will not follow its owner to follow a king.
Do not follow a person who is running away.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
If you don't know the path to the spring or swamp, follow the trail of broken pots.
Follow the wise few rather than the vulgar many.
Follow not truth too near the heels lest it dash out your teeth.
He who knows not and knows not that he knows not is a fool. Shun him. He who knows not and knows that he knows not is a child. Teach him. He who knows and knows not that he knows is asleep. Wake him. He who knows and knows that he knows is a wise man. Follow him.
If the camel once get his nose in the tent, his body will follow.
Follow Love and it will flee, flee love and it will follow thee.
Wherever the ram goes the sheep will follow.
If one sheep puts his head through the gap the rest will follow.
He who knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is a fool, shun him; He who knows not, and knows that he knows not, is a child, teach him. He who knows, and knows not that he knows, is asleep, wake him. He who knows, and knows that he knows, is wise, follow him.
If you would have the dog follow you, give him bread.
The wolf told the dog: It does not matter that I run and you follow me, what matters is that when I turn around you will be next to me.
Follow love, and it will flee from thee; leave it, and it will follow thee.
He that looks to freets, freets follow him.
When an elephant falls, meat is sure to be surplus for those who follow the hunter.
If all seeds that fall were to grow, then no one could follow the path under the trees.
If a dane first has come into the room, more danes will probably follow.
Once broken, the pack-saddle will follow.
If the first goat goes lame, those that follow will not reach the pasture.
When one sheep is over the dam, the rest follow.
Fouls invent fashions and wise men follow them.
When the blind man carries the banner, woe to those who follow.
If you follow god, you won't find anything.
If you would have the dog follow you, give him bread.
He who would thrive must follow the church, the sea, or the king's service.
He that follows freits, freits will follow him.
When one dog barks, another will follow suit.
There's no haste, when a Russian does not follow you.
Do not follow a person who is running a way.
Follow a secure road even if it is winding.
At a distance enjoy the fragrance of flowers.
A bit of fragrance clings to the hand that gives flowers.
A rose too often smelled loses its fragrance.
When the dew-laden breeze of the uplands creeps swiftly down, it brings with it the fragrance of the gardenia.
A bit of fragrance always clings to the hand that gives you roses.
Flowers leave a part of their fragrance in the hands that bestow them.
Beauty without virtue is a rose without fragrance.
A kiss without a hug is like a flower without the fragrance.
He who paints the flower cannot paint its fragrance.
The company of the wicked is like living in a fish market; one becomes used to the foul odor.
He that deals in dirt has ay foul fingers.
Fair hair may have foul roots.
Even foul water will quench fire.
Even foul water will put out a fire.
Tender surgeons make foul wounds.
By fair means or foul.
The peacock hath fair feathers, but a foul voice.
When the buttocks foul the air it's the head that gets knocked.
In fair weather prepare for foul.
Foul water will quench fire.
The peacock has fair feathers, but foul feet.
Drive not too many ploughs at once, some will make foul work.
If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to. [If fair means cannot, foul shall.].
A fair face, foul heart.
The peacock hath fair feathers, but foul feet.
Foul water as soon as fair will quench hot fire.
A foul foot makes a son wemb.
She's a foul bird that syles her own nest.
Preists and Doves, make foul houses.
Foul water slokens fire.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
Foul linen should be washed at home.
Fine dressing is a foul house, swept before the windows.
Wine will not keep in a foul vessel.
However foul it be, never say, Of this water I will not drink.
It is a foul bird that fills his own nest.
One's foul smelling does not sicken one self but merely disguts one.
Never seemed prison fair, or mistress foul.
In fair weather prepare foul.
Conversation is food for the soul.
The best of mankind is a farmer the best food is fruit.
One shares food not words.
The most dangerous food is a wedding cake.
If you are too sparing with the cat's food, the rats will eat your ears.
The rich would have to eat money if the poor did not provide food.
However little food we have, we'll share it even if it's only one locust.
Those who are at one regarding food are at one in life.
If you watch your pot, your food will not burn.
You are only master of food that you haven't yet eaten.
Sympathy doesn't provide food, but it makes hunger more endurable.
There is no bad food in a famine.
A patient that can swallow food makes the nurse doubtful.
One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food.
The God who made the mouth will provide the food.
A proverb is to speech what salt is to food.
When your luck deserts you, even cold food burns.
The forest provides food to the hunter after they are exhaustingly tired.
What one won't eat by itself, one will eat when mixed with other food.
He who eats another mans food will have his own food eaten by others.
Kyoto people ruin themselves for clothing. osaka people for food.
One who eats plain food is healthy.
The grasshopper which is always near its mother eats the best food.
The goat says: "where there is blood, there is plenty of food.”.
A healthy person who begs for food is an insult to a generous farmer.
Nature gave us two cheeks instead of one to make it easier to eat hot food.
A warm fire is better than any delicious food.
First food, then religion.
Good music goes with good food.
He who doesn't clean his mouth before breakfast always complains that the food is sour.
Truth is bitter food.
The cats that drive away mice are as food as those that catch them.
Long fasting is no economy of food.
A greyhound finds food in its feet.
Only a fool would prefer food to a woman.
The shortcut to food but the long way to work.
A cabin with plenty of food is better than a hungry castle.
Good sense is as important as food.
A hound's food is in its legs.
Food is no more important than wisdom, The beginning of wisdom is the fear of God.
God gives food to every bird, but does not throw it into the nest.
He who would relish his food must not see it cooked.
Warm food, warm friendships.
Radish is poison in the morning, food at noon and medicine in the evening.
All food is fit to eat, but not all words are fit to speak.
The sweetness of food doesn't last long, but the sweetness of good words do.
When you go a fireside an' see food, eat half an' lef' half.
A closed mouth catches neither flies nor food.
Who does not work will not get food.
More flies mean more food.
Keeping yourself and your food clean, you'll get more from it.
A little axe, when well used, brings lots of food.
Even food can attack.
If you are looking for a fly in your food it means that you are full.
God gives birds their food, but they must fly for it.
Before eating, always take time to thank the food.
Hide the mouthfuls of food.
Happiness is as good as food.
A dog knows the places he is thrown food.
Words are sweet, but they never take the place of food.
Food will last while the forests last.
The food which is prepared has no master.
If you watch your pot, your food will not burn.
Tasty food, plenty of food, food in the right time – and peace at mealtimes.
The food is half the provisions, the rest is herring and potatoes.
The most dangerous food to eat is a wedding cake.
The food that is in the mouth is not yet in the belly.
An abundance of food at your neighbour's will not satisfy your hunger.
The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry.
The most dangerous food is wedding cake.
Food is delicious when one is hungry.
Whatever will satisfy hunger is good food.
The conversation of the wise concerns ideas; that of the intelligent is about ideas; the common folk talk about food.
Enough food and a pipe full of tobacco makes you equal to the immortals.
Your food is supposed to be your medicine and your medicine is supposed to be your food.
The mouth is stupid after eating it forgets who gave it the food.
If you give bad food to your stomach, it drums for you to dance.
If you see a man in a gown eating with a man in rags, the food belongs to the latter.
You cannot work for food when there is no food for work.
Even the best cooking pot will not produce food.
Food you will not eat you do not boil.
The forest not only hides man's enemies but its full of man's medicine, healing power and food.
The man who counts the bits of food he swallows is never satisfied.
A bad cook also has his/her share of the bad food.
A spider's cobweb isn't only its sleeping spring but also its food trap.
The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry.
Water is colourless and tasteless but you can live on it longer than eating food.
Prayer is food for the soul.
Pain is forgotten where gain comes.
A pain in the foot is soon forgotten -- a pain in the head is not.
A debt is still unpaid, even if forgotten.
The only truly dead are those who have been forgotten.
The revenge that is postponed is not forgotten.
My skirt with tears is always wet: I have forgotten to forget.
It is not wrong to go back for that which you have forgotten.
If you are in the house of a friend, bad times are soon forgotten.
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you.
Kisses that are easily obtained are easily forgotten.
Soon learn, soon forgotten.
Nothing is so new as what has long been forgotten.
May you never forget what is worth remembering, or remember what is best forgotten.
The old saints are forgotten in the new.
The river passed the saint forgotten.
Seldom seen soon forgotten.
What's good is often forgotten; what's bad is often hidden.
It was smooth on paper, but we've forgotten about ravines.
Nine days wonders are forgotten soon after that.
The danger past, and God forgotten.
When a musician hath forgotten his note, He makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat.
Acts of kindness may soon be forgotten, but the memory of an offense remains.
For the sake of one good action, a hundred evil ones should be forgotten.
Shame is forgotten, debts are not.
The cow has forgotten she was once a calf.
The dead are soon forgotten.
Old love will not be forgotten.
When the wound is healed the pain is forgotten.
Better twice remembered than once forgotten.
Nothing is as new as something which as been long forgotten.
Forgiven is not forgotten.
When the danger has passed, the saints are soon forgotten.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Another's damage is soon forgotten.
The damage of another is soon forgotten.
Quickly dear and soon forgotten.
Danger past, God forgotten.
How can man be remembered when the giant trees in the forest are soon forgotten.
Eaten food is forgotten.
Young fools think that the old are dotards, but the old have forgotten more than the young fools know.
The dead are soon forgotten.
Prices are forgotten, quality remains.
A long dispute has been forgoten by love, or sometimes a long time of goodness has been forgotten by one badness.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
It worked on paper, but [we've] forgotten about ravines (and we'll have to march [them]).
In the larger affairs the minor are forgotten.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
What's past is forgotten.
How can man be remembered when the giant trees in the forest are soon forgotten.
A Christmas wish - may you never forget what is worth remembering, or remember what is best forgotten.
Old love will not be forgotten.
Although there's a new love, the old love can't be forgotten.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Save your fowl before it stops flapping.
A fowl does not forget where it lays it eggs.
The hungry fowl wakes early.
Do not pretend to be a white fowl.
A stranger is like a white fowl.
He who devours his neighbour's fowl, its foot prints will give him away.
the curse of the fowl does not bother the kite.
Better to have bread and an onion with peace than stuffed fowl with strife.
Who eats his fowl alone, must saddle his horse alone.
The fowl perspires, but the feathers do not allow us to see the perspiration.
Cockroach nuh business inna fowl fight.
Sensa fowl no wan fedder, but him want carn.
Alligator lay egg but him no fowl.
Cockroach neber so drunk him walk a fowl yard.
Good is the fowl which another rears.
Bad fowl, bad egg.
It is better to eat bread with love than fowl with grief.
The bush fowl saw the chicken being carved up and laughed. The chicken told the bush fowl to stop laughing. For the same hands now carving up the chicken would be used to carve up the bush fowl.
You are a white mout fowl.
Fowl cock en got nuh right in bulldog fight.
A new fowl always has string around its legs.
Never mock a fowl with raffled feathers it might have won a fight.
Black fowl can lay white eggs.
"o what we must suffer for the sake of God's church!” said the abbot, when the roast fowl burned his fingers.
When falkland hill puts on his cap, the howe o' fife will get a drap, and when the bishop draws his cowl, look out for wind and weather fowl.
When you cook a guinea fowl, the partridge gets a headache.
He that eats his fowl alone may saddle his horse alone.
She is nether fish nor fowl.
When they wish to eat a vulture, they call it a guinea fowl.
A guine- fowl not lay eggs on strange places.
One who eats a guinea fowl does not start to look like a guinea fowl.
When fowl drink water him lif' up him head and say 'Tank God" but man drink water and no say not'ing.
One neighbor's fowl seems a goose to another neighbor.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth and the mouth of the wise man is in his heart.
Even a fool has one talent.
He who asks a question may be a fool for five minutes; he who asks no questions stays a fool forever.
The fool speaks, the wise man listens.
A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed.
When a fool is cursed, he thinks he is being praised.
There is no medicine for a fool.
He is a fool who marries an old woman without teeth.
If you make a fool to pray to God, he will hurt forehead.
When you argue with a fool, make sure he is not doing the same.
Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son.
Only a fool tries to jump in the fire.
Only the fool points at his origins with his left hand.
The tongue of the fool is always long.
There is no fool who has not his own kind of sense.
If a fool borrows a book, cut off his hand; but cut off both hands, of the fool who brings it back.
As the wise man looks for a bridge the fool crosses the river.
To promise and give nothing is comfort for a fool.
The poor fool is a man who falls on his back and breaks his nose.
The obliging fool is worse than an enemy.
A fool may sometimes give a wise man counsel.
All too good is every man's fool.
There's nothing worse for an intelligent person than to put a fool beside him.
In a fight with a fool it's a wise man who quits.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth, the mouth of a wise man is in his heart.
The same destiny awaits both the wise man and the fool.
The village gate can be closed, the mouth of the fool, never.
A fool laughs at himself.
No woman can make a wise man out of a fool, but every woman can change a wise man into a fool.
To be a fool at the right time is also an art.
You should have done it on the wedding night, you fool.
When a fool becomes enlightened, the wise man is in trouble.
The speaker may well be a fool but the listener is wise.
Even a fool knows the glow of gold.
Laughter is the hiccup of a fool.
By the time the fool has learned the game, the players have dispersed.
A fool judges people by the presents they give him.
He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever.
Never has a man more need of his intelligence than when a fool asks him a question.
A fool is like the big drum that beats fast but does not realize its hollowness.
A mother and daughter fought, and fool thought they meant it.
A fool and water will go the way they are diverted.
Only a fool tests the depth of a river with both feet.
Success ruins a fool.
He is a fool that makes his doctor his heir.
He is a fool who cannot be angry but a wise man who will not.
He that would make a fool of himself will find many to help him.
He's no fool who parts with what he can't keep to get what he shall not lose.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return.
The older the fool, the harder he falls.
There's no fool like an old fool.
Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
There is no fool than an old fool.
A fool will laugh when he is drowning.
A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool.
A child's service is little, yet he is no little fool that despises it.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
The soul of a fool is always dancing on the tip of his tongue.
Don't think you are eloquent just because a fool applauds you.
If you play with the fool at home, he will play with you abroad.
One fool may ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
He who is his own teacher has a fool for his pupil.
One should be born either a king or a fool.
One fool praises another.
If everyone were wise, a fool would be the prize.
The older a fool, the worse he is.
"great cry and little wool,” said the fool, when he sheared a pig.
A fool and his money are easily parted.
There's a fool born every minute – and every one of them lives.
Only a fool would prefer food to a woman.
Don't give cherries to a pig; don't give advice to a fool.
Never call a Kerry man a fool until you're sure he's not a rogue.
Without pressing too little or too hard, hold tight the reins for he's a fool who would not get value from a borrowed horse.
One learns as long as one lives and still dies a fool.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, prepare to die.
The fool passes for wise if he is silent.
A fool stands always in the rain.
A fool went to fish, but lost his fishing-basket.
A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom.
Who is born a fool is never cured.
Faith in a lord, a cap for the fool.
The fool knows more in his own house than the sage in other men's.
He is a fool who does not know from what quarter the wind blows.
Even the fool says a wise word sometimes.
Only a fool asks, "What do you want with my wife?”.
That priest is a fool who decries his relics.
The fool has to do at last what the wise did at first.
The italians are wise before the deed; the germans in the deed; the french after the deed.
The germans in the stable, the czech in the kitchen and the french in bed.
To speak French doesn't mean you are smart.
Beware of french people who pretend to quarrel with each other: they will join together to fight you.
Speaking french is no proof of intelligence.
Not need to know french to ask to sleep outside.
With a French sweep.
The Italians cry, the Germans bawl, and the French sing.
Spanish is the language of lovers, Italian is for the singer, French for diplomats, and German for horses.
A cat likes to eat fresh fish but it will not go into the water.
Frog never gargle him troat till him tas'e fresh water.
The fish was so fresh that it was being cooked while its tail was still in the sea.
Love and eggs are best when they are fresh.
Fresh port and new wine, send a Christian to the churchyard.
A lazy fly cannot have a taste of a fresh wound.
Every fresh banana leaf should eventually become a dry banana leaf.
The animal hide can best be straightened and smoothened when still fresh.
Fresh pork and new wine kill a man before his time.
Fresh fish and new-come guests smell in three days.
When a palm-branch reaches its height, it gives way for a fresh one to grow.
The sun never sets without fresh news.
Benefits, like flowers, please most when they are fresh.
Benefits please like flowers, when they are fresh.
Benefits, like flowers, please most when they are fresh.
Friar Modest never was a prior.
The gown does not make the friar.
A misfortune and a friar seldom go alone.
It is not the cowl that makes the friar.
The friar preached against stealing when he had a pudding in his sleeve.
To go as fast as a friar that is invited to dinner.
God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night.
A turn of the key is better than the conscience of a friar.
Do what the friar says, and not what he does.
God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night.
The friar who prays in god's name prays for two.
Neither a good friar for friend, nor a bad one for enemy.
Trust not your gossip to a priest who has been a friar.
Stretch your foot to the length of your blanket.
When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height.
For every ailing foot, there is a slipper.
A pain in the foot is soon forgotten -- a pain in the head is not.
Youth does not mind where it sets its foot.
A stirring foot always gets something, even if it's only a thorn.
In my homeland I possess one hundred horses, yet if I go, I go on foot.
If you speak the truth, keep a foot in the stirrup.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan, along comes the beetle and sticks out her foot.
If you're going to tell the truth, you better have one foot in the stirrup.
He who devours his neighbour's fowl, its foot prints will give him away.
Darkness reigns at the foot of the lighthouse.
Don't scratch your shoe when it's your foot that itches.
To kick with sore toe only hurts foot.
Raise your sail one foot and you get ten feet of wind.
Where the heart would go, there follows the foot.
When a blind man tells you he is going to throw a stone, know that his foot is on the stone.
You can't steal second base with your foot on first.
Never tell your enemy that your foot aches.
There is no better manure than the farmer's foot.
Keep something for the sore foot.
When one foot stumbles, the other is near falling.
With one foot in the grave.
He who has one foot in a brothel, has the other in a hospital.
He who would go further than his horse, must alight and go on foot.
It was not on one foot that St. Patrick came to Ireland.
The man with the boots does not mind where he places his foot.
There is never an old brogue but there is a foot to fit it.
He pushes it away with the hand, but pulls it forward with the foot.
The belly warm, the foot at rest.
Party over, musicians by foot.
Tell your secret to your friend and he will set his foot on your neck.
A sweaty foot seldom comes alone.
If the stomachache were in the foot, one would go lame.
A chicken sees the snake's foot and a snake sees the chicken's breast.
Swing a foot into thorns.
No all foot in a boot a good foot.
The foot pains in sympathy with the toe.
The woman who always complains and is never satisfied with anything is like an annoying flea on the foot.
Sickness comes on horseback, but goes away on foot.
Better the foot slip than the tongue.
When you tell the truth, have one foot in the stirrup.
He that speaks truth must have one foot in the stirrup.
Give a clown your foot, and he'll take your hand.
The hand assists the foot, but the foot cannot do the same.
If it does not stink, it is not a foot.
A lie doesn't have a foot to stand on.
The hand assists the foot, but the foot cannot do the same.
When the mouth stumbles, it is worse than the foot.
The careful foot can walk anywhere.
Reshape one's foot to try to fit into a new shoe.
Parents who are afraid to put their foot down usually have children who step on their toes.
The body pays for a slip of the foot, and gold pays for a slip of the tongue.
The one whose foot you heal kicks you with it.
Better cut the shoe than pinch the foot.
Do not put your foot further than you can draw it back again.
On an unknown path every foot is slow.
Keep your foot on the mark.
A slip of the foot and you may soon recover, but a slip of the tongue you may never get over.
Always put your best foot forward.
Ye're a foot behint the foremost.
A cobbler formed the shape of shoes on a wooden foot shaped last. If it lasted long he was happy.
If you keep your mouth shut, you won't put your foot in it.
Spring has come when you can put your foot on three daisies.
Misfotunes come on wings and depart on foot.
Rather a slip of the foot than a slip of the pen.
A slip of the foot may soon be recovered; but that of the tongue perhaps never.
The foot of the owner is the best manure for his land.
It is a bad idea to take a thorn out of someone else's foot and put it into your own.
The foot of the farmer manures the field.
It is folly to take a thorn out of another's foot and put it into your own.
Better badly mounted than proud on foot.
Stand so much until grass grows under your foot.
Tell your friend your secret, and he will set his foot on your neck.
Better slip with the foot than with the tongue.
It is not spring until you can plant your foot upon twelve daisies.
Pride went out on horseback, and returned on foot.
The difficult thing is to get foot in the stirrup.
The same shoe does not fit every foot.
Tie me hand and foot and throw me among my own people.
He danced bound hand and foot.
He has already one foot in the grave.
Better a bare foot than none.
Every shoe fits not every foot.
A foul foot makes a son wemb.
Keep something for a sair foot.
Even the highest tree has an axe waiting at its foot.
The weak warrior wearing sandals overcomes the brave with a thorn in his foot.
Because the cat was given no meat, he said it was Friday.
Keep your sickness until friday and don't fast.
If there were no cold Friday evenings and boring Saturdays, no one would get married any more.
The cat which did not reach the sausage said: Anyhow it is Friday.
Friday is longer than Saturday.
Don't start braiding your rope on a monday or a friday.
Christ doesn't pay every friday evening.
He don't care if good friday come pon a sunday.
Friday pretexts for not fasting.
The tiger depends on the forest; the forest depends on the tiger.
Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle.
You do not teach the paths of the forest to an old gorilla.
When building a house, don't measure the timbers in the forest.
A deer tethered with a golden chain can escape to the forest to eat grass.
Not all the trees in the forest make good firewood.
God is big, but the forest is bigger.
The rain follows after the forest.
Do not measure the timbers for your house in the forest.
When the branches of trees in the forest are fighting, the roots are kissing.
It is better to walk fast than to grow angry at the forest.
Loving someone that does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest.
One who enters a forest does not listen to the breaking of the twigs in the brush.
The forest provides food to the hunter after they are exhaustingly tired.
To lend your hatchet and get your forest cut down.
If a forest catches fire, both the dry and the wet will burn up.
A forest is the poor man's overcoat.
Even if the nightingale is in a gold cage, she still dreams of returning to the forest.
You can't find stupidity in the forest.
What is called into a forest is the same what is echoed from the forest.
Who goes for a day in the forest should take bread for a week.
A man's heart is a forest.
Don't poop in a field and don't talk in a forest.
Rains always follow the forest.
If you get lost in an icelandic forest, simply stand up and you will find your way.
If one calls in the forest will one get a response.
The forest will answer you in the way you call to it.
Work is not a wolf, it's not going away to the forest.
Seven versts# to heaven, and all the way through the forest.
A stranger's soul is like a dark forest.
A virgin's heart is a dark forest.
No matter how much you feed a wolf, he will always return to the forest.
To one who knows no better, a small garden is a forest.
To one who does not know, a who garden is a forest.
The forest has ears.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
Without the forest, there will be no more water, without water, there will be no more rice.
A hunter has no mysterious notions about the forest.
A forest cannot be cut with a broken axe.
Who gets lost in the forest takes it out on who leads him back to the right road.
Fuel is not sold in a forest, nor fish on a lake.
A single tree cannot make a forest.
A single tree makes no forest; one string makes no music.
Two tigers cannot share one mountain (forest).
You do not teach the paths of the forest to an old gorilla.
A family is like a thick forest, often from outside its dense, when your inside each tree has its own position.
Who gets lost in the forest takes it out on who leads him back.
A river doesn't flow through the forest without felling the trees.
To love that one who never loves you is like rain falling in the forest.
Being in the forest and failing to see trees is a curse.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
He who doesn't find is way back from the forest gets lost within it.
The forest not only hides man's enemies but its full of man's medicine, healing power and food.
A man who marries an outcast is like rain wasted in the forest.
He who doesn't know how a snake smells shouldn't walk into the forest.
Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle.
The forest has ears, and field has eyes.
Woman's beauty, the forest echo, and rainbows, soon pass away.
Hunger will lead a fox out of the forest.
The forest has an ear, the field has an eye.
Better one bird in the hand than ten in the forest.
A single tree can not make a forest.
The rain follows after the forest.
The forest of an unpleasant person is the one that has trees.
A woman in the house is like a kaka in the forest.
He is a buck of an endless forest.
Man is preceded by forest and followed by desert.
As you shout (in the forest) you will be answered.
Forest gives what forest has.
The recruit is the fastest animal of the forest.
Without the forest, there will be no more water.
He can't see the forest for the trees.
Loving someone who does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest.
One bamboo does not make a forest.
To one who does not know, a small garden is a forest.
How can man be remembered when the giant trees in the forest are soon forgotten.
When building a house, don't measure the timbers in the forest.
The voice of the forest kujanun bird is the glory of the tamarisks.
One does not become a master diviner in a day. A forest is not made in a season. The swoop of an eagle has seen many seasons and floods...
The family is like the forest. If you are outside, it is dense.
In every forest, there is a snake.
To miss the forest because of the trees.
A country without freedom is like a prisoner with shackled hands.
The child who loves freedom is the first victim of it.
He who has lost his freedom has nothing else to lose.
Money taken, freedom forsaken.
He who borrows sells his freedom.
Who accepts from another sells his freedom.
Where you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.
He who takes a woman gives away his freedom.
To whom you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.
Who rids himself of his own freedom, always finds himself with worry and pain.
Freedom for the free and heaven for the saved.
Give your children too much freedom and you lose your own.
Where freedom is, there shall my country be.
When money is taken freedom is forsaken.
It's better to eat a mushroom in freedom than to eat meat in slavery.
Injurious is the gift that takes away freedom.
A smart man doesn't give his wife a lot of freedom.
Freedom is a plateful of hard crusts.
Freedom or death.
We have to fight for our freedom as long as it takes, and we shall not mind the death following our struggle for independence.
You surrender your freedom where you deposit your secret.
Where there is doubt, there is freedom.
"Where there is doubt, there is freedom." legal, meaning when in doubt the prisoner has to be freed.
To accept a favour is to sell one's freedom.
Fortune favours the brave.
The stupid fear fortune, the wise endure it.
After bad luck comes good fortune.
When your fortune improves, the columns of your house appear to be crooked.
Affairs sleep soundly when fortune is present.
Wind and fortune are not lasting.
Change yourself, and fortune will change with you.
Fortune is a giver and a taker.
Who changes his condition changes fortune.
Don't put your trust in Fortune until you are in heaven.
Fortune will call at the smiling gate.
He who runs after good fortune runs away from peace.
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you.
Fortune is weary to carry one and the same man always.
Fortune is blind.
Discord between the powerful is a fortune for the poor.
Fortune give many too much, but no one enough.
Fortune gives her hand to a bold man.
When fortune knocks, open the door.
Women, fortune, and gold, favor fools.
He who has the fortune brings home the bride.
Whom fortune favors, the world favors.
Endeavor to bear the ignorance of fortune with patience.
A stout heart breaks ill fortune.
To the bold man Fortune holds out her hand.
Fate throws fortune, but not everyone catches.
Skill or fortune will efface the spots.
A stout heart overcomes ill fortune.
Everything may be borne except good fortune.
Fortune, and go to sleep.
The priest's friend loses his faith, the doctor's his health, and the lawyer's his fortune.
One should go invited to a friend in good fortune, and uninvited in misfortune.
With fortune on your side you can sow salt and harvest grass.
Good fortune is loaned, not owned.
The bad fortune of zoza: in winter it sees not the sun and in summer it sees not the moon.
Don't trust in fortune until you are in heaven.
Fortune favours the brave.
Fortune and glass break easily.
Fortune is round; it makes one a king, another a dunghill.
Fortune lost, nothing lost; courage lost, much lost; honour lost, more lost; soul lost, all lost.
Fortune and glass break soon, alas.
Fortune does not stand waiting at any one's door.
No man knoweth fortune till he dies.
A great fortune in the hands of a fool is a great misfortune.
Fortune is a woman; if you neglect her today do not expect to regain her tomorrow.
Fortune is blind, but not invisible.
Fortune and misfortune live in the same courtyard.
Good fortune wears a pretty dress but its underclothes do not bear investigation.
God grant you good fortune, my son, for knowledge avails you little.
A good heart breaks bad fortune.
Her father's fortune will make the ugliest girl attractive.
Fortune is like a wall that falls on those who lean on it.
Speedy exception is the mother of good fortune.
Merit is often an obstacle to fortune; the reason is it produces two bad effects, envy and fear.
The blindnes of that one is his good fortune.
Once you have made a fortune, know how to spend it.
A great fortune depends on luck, a small one on diligence.
When good fortune finally comes, no one can ever stop it.
What first appears as a calamity may later bring good fortune.
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.
Fortune has a fickle heart and a short memory.
A man's fortune must first be changed from within.
He who burns down his house knows why ashes cost a fortune.
A great fortune is a great servitude.
When fortune knocks, open the door.
One man's folly is another man's fortune.
Fortune makes friends; misfortune tries them.
Fortune never comes with both hands full.
Change of fortune hurts a wise man no more that a change of the moon.
Fortune can take away riches but not courage.
Fortune is like price: if you can wait long enough, the price will fall.
A man's best fortune or his worst is a wife.
He that hath no ill fortune is troubled with good.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
Не dances well to whom fortune pipes.
Fortune is with you for an hour, and against you for ten.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
Fortune often knocks at the door, but the fool does not invite her in.
Fortune rarely brings good or evil singly.
It is easy to manage when fortune favors.
As fortune is sought, so it is found.
Whatever is given to the poor, is laid out of the reach of fortune.
In bad fortune hold out, in good hold in.
Fortune is like women: loves youth and is fickle.
Industry is the parent of fortune.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
All the world will beat the man whom fortune buffets.
Fortune goes like a wheel.
Life? That is a candle in the wind; frost upon a roof; the twitching of the fish in a pan.
Frost on the mutt, water on the bed.
The frost hurts not weeds.
Add frost to snow.
Life is like a candle in the wind; like frost on the roof; like the wriggling of the fish in the pan.
Grass fears the frost, frost fears the sun.
The frost will bring the pig home.
For every fog in march there's a frost in may.
Ill weeds are not hurt by frost.
Just wait, frost, the summer will come!
Clear moon, frost soon.
After we fry the fat, we see what is left.
The pike grows big on small fry.
Two skinny people don't fry.
Fry de bigh fish fust, te lilly one after.
Fry the chapati when the pan is hot.
Don't cry fried fish before they are caught.
You can't hatch chickens from fried eggs.
That is beggar's fare, said the dame, when she fried eggs with the sausages.
I've fried my sausage in better pans than these.
Knows more than fried fish.
Never fry a fish till it's caught.
You cannot eat a fried fish by flipping it.
The fried dove/pigeon (or chicken) will not fly into your mouth.
It takes both luck and good fortune just to fry eggs.
To have eye one on the cat and another on the frying-pan.
At shrove-tide every one had need of his frying-pan.
A blow from a frying-pan, if it does not hurt, smuts.
The frying-pan says to the kettle, "Avaunt, black brows!"
He that holds the handle of a frying-pan runs the risk of burning himself.
The kettle smuts the frying-pan.
He who holds the handle of the frying-pan turns it as he pleases.
One eye on the frying-pan and the other on the cat.
A blow from a frying-pan blacks, though it may not hurt.
Don't call in the doctor after the funeral.
One funeral makes many.
Funeral sermon, lying sermon.
What would shame him would turn back a funeral.
When your own funeral is approaching, you don't pick and choose your grave diggers.
He who comes for the inheritance is often made to pay for the funeral.
A bird flies high above and its funeral is performed on the ground.
At someone's funeral we weep for our own mothers and fathers.
A beautiful funeral does not necessarily lead to paradise.
The only thing that was missing at the rich man's funeral was mourners.
When the judge's mule dies, everyone goes to the funeral; when the judge himself dies, no one does.
He who comes for the inheritance is often made to pay for the funeral.
He would attend ther funeral of labour.
Take with you an onion to the funeral.
The crocodile does not die under the water so that we can call the monkey to celebrate its funeral.
He who dances at the wedding, weeps at the funeral.
They attend a funeral robed in white, and a wedding in mourning.
A wedding is like a funeral, but with musicians.
Dream of a funeral and you hear of a marriage.
It is not worth telling a lovely story at the funeral.
Come for your inheritance and you may have to pay for the funeral.
When someone claims an inheritance, he sometimes has to pay for the funeral.
Don't sell the fur until the bear has been shot.
In the place a donkey dies, fur remains.
The fox can lose his fur but not his cunning.
No use crying at the market, sell your fur coat and drink the money.
It is bread that keeps one warm, not fur.
Don't sell the fur before shooting the bear.
Don't judge the dog by its fur.
God promised me a fur coat, and I am already sweating.
Cyaa tan fur, t'row saal inna pat.
One cannot make a fur coat from a "Thank you.”.
Et is ken Ding sau schlimm, et is boo gut für.
The wolf changes his fur, but never his temperament.
I'll make the fur
Fly 'bout the ears of the old cur.
One shouldn't sell the bear's fur before one has killed him.
You should not judge a dog by its fur.
Don't sell the fur until the bear has been shot.
A fox can change its fur, not its behavior.
Absence, and a friendly neighbor, washeth away love.
Better a friendly denial than an unwilling compliance.
Don't be too friendly with the clergy and don't fall out with them.
A woman like a lamb, a quiet friendly woman.
A woman like a sheep, an affable friendly woman.
The more the mother-in-law drinks the more friendly is her greeting.
A friendly person is never a good-for-nothing.
A friendly word is better than a heavy cake.
With a friendly word you get farther than with a club.
When men are friendly the water is sweet.
He who is not friendly towards a good guest will never have one.
Even two friendly dogs cannot share a single bone.
Even if you remain an island you must still be friendly to the sea.
A dog will defend its territory though it's friendly.
Friendly is as friendly does.
Friendly words are convincing.
Be friendly with everyone and counsel with few.
You can get farther with a friendly word than with a club.
You can proclaim the truth also in a friendly way.
The cat is friendly, but scratches.
Better a friendly refusal than an unwilling consent.
As the ocimbamba seeks the low lying tree so friends gather to the friendly person.
That my friend should be well is our wish, and that our enemies should be gone! May those friendly to you reach their goal as a ship does a friendly harbour! May your enemy, like the flood waters of a river, return to his city.
The most friendly fortune trips up your heels.
Woe is he who claims to have found happiness.
Some men will build a wine cellar when they have found just one grape.
We praised the bride, and she was found pregnant.
All temptations are found either in hope or fear.
A calf is not found under an ox.
He has fallen off the donkey, but has found a date.
White flowers are not to be found in a coal sack.
Death is not found behind mountains but right behind our shoulders.
Soon found soon lost.
I grew up among wise men and found that there is nothing better for man than silence.
Wisdom can be found travelling.
Only through suffering and sorrow do we acquire the wisdom not found in books.
How come that when I lost my sheep and could not find it, I was questioned; but the hyena who was found with the sheepskin is not questioned.
If money where to be found up in the trees, most people would be married to monkeys.
Workmen are easier found than masters.
Leave the bad tale where you found it.
The ass embraced the thistle, and they found themselves relations.
Acorns were good till bread was found.
Found a nice tree when your axe broken.
Who has got a good wife has found a good thing.
Once you have found your first diamond, you will never give up looking.
One lost, two found.
Home is home, as the Devil said when he found himself in the Court of Session.
What has been blown away, cannot be found again.
Zeal is fit only for wise men but is found mostly in fools.
Take only what you need and leave the land as you found it.
Beautiful discourse is rarer than emerald, yet it can be found among the servant girls at the grindstones.
Whatever the type of firewood found in a place, it is usually good enough for the people of that place to cook with.
The riverside monkey is apt to be blamed for every twig found in the river.
Many a sweet maid when one knows her mind is fickle found towards men.
A fool's heart is found in his mouth.
There's many a good man to be found under a shabby hat.
Take what you need and leave our land the way you found it.
A good man gone wrong is usually a bad man found out.
A friend is easier lost than found.
True friends are like diamonds, precious and rare; false ones like autumn leaves, found everywhere.
Real happiness is found not in doing the things you like to do, but in liking the things you have to do.
Who busies himself where no profit is found remains a fool the whole year round.
Seek that which may be found.
A friend is best found in adversity.
Once you have found your rhythm, you will then know your God.
A clever man's inheritance is found in every country.
The best advice is found on the pillow.
As fortune is sought, so it is found.
He who forces love when none is found, remains a fool the whole year round.
All the fruit is not found in just one field.
Necessity seeks bread where it is to be found.
The fox never found a surer messenger than himself.
The grace of God is found between the saddle and the ground.
Brains are not to be found in the beard.
A stick is soon found to beat a dog.
The best doctor is to be found in hell.
The sack has found its patch.
Love is not found in the market.
Your soul to God, your body to dust, your property to your relatives, because thus it has been found written.
Unfolded by the water are faces of the flowers. Flowers thrive where there is water, as thriving people are found where living conditions are good.
It's a long river whose head can't be found.
A bequest, a found treasure, and parsimony make a man wealthy.
Who got up, lost his place, who sat down, found it.
Who leaves the old way for the new, the trouble not looked for, will be found there.
Love without pain is not to be found anywhere.
Riches are found in cultivating together.
What you save is, later, like something found.
Over the bottle many a friend is found.
Don't drive a Binya into the woods if he has found his way to your house.
They sowed "if only" and "if found", and wind and waste sprang up.
To be like the tailor of Campillo, who worked for nothing, and found thread.
In every pomegranate a decayed pip is to be found.
Lost time is never found again.
What mare's nest hast thou found?
Always has booze found its drinker.
He who has not learned to share his blessings with others has not found the true path to enduring happiness.
Avoiding the drop, he found himself under the gutter.
The lid rolled and found the cook.
The early wanderer found a turtle.
Lie is quickly found out.
Everything what's not stolen will be found.
An opportunity is found with difficulty and easily lost.
The bride who wears four petticoats has a lot to hide.
A horse has four legs, yet it often falls.
There are four things every person has more of than they know; sins, debt, years, and foes.
As twice two is four.
Four walls make a man free.
The cock goes to town for only four days and returns home a peacock.
A Horse has four legs, but still stumbles.
When a girl is born all four walls weep.
A foolish fox is caught by one leg, but a wise one by all four.
Someone who is pointing his finger to another person is not always aware that the four remaining fingers are pointing in his direction.
What is done under the four moons need never be recalled nor regretted.
A statement once let loose cannot be caught by four horses.
Smith and Wesson or a Colt always beat four aces.
One white foot, buy him; two white feet, try him; three white feet, look well about him; four white feet, go without him.
There are four things in this life of which we have more than we think: faults, debts, years and enemies.
He who has four and spends five, has no need of a purse.
Three or four daily will bring you to the bottom of the sack.
A horse falls though he has four legs.
One eye of the master sees more than four eyes of his servants.
Even a horse, though he has four feet, stumbles.
He is a fool who boasts of four things: that he has good wine, a good horse, a handsome wife, and plenty of money.
Its better to drive four horses than a donkey.
Who weds a widow with three children takes four thieves into his house.
Nunziata, fix the salad, a little vinegar, lots of oil, four reckless mouthfuls, and then some drinks from the jug.
A usurer, a miller, a banker, and a publican, are the four evangelists of Lucifer.
The devil's in the cards, said Sam, four aces and not a single trump.
What men usually ask for when they pray to God is, that two and two may not make four.
Four things put a man beside himself--women, tobacco, cards, and wine.
Four thousand throats may be cut in one night by a running man.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
ie One eye of a master sees more than four of a servent.
Four things come not back: the spoken word, the spent arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
Within the four seas all man are brethren.
When a stiff-necked bull stands with its four legs planted firmly and refuses to move, you cannot make it go ahead only by pulling it by the reins and using your whip.
He who can read and write has four eyes.
All asses do not go on four feet.
Man with four balls can't walk.
Four things come not back -- the spoken word, the sped arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
The horse that you love draws more than four oxen.
Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
There goes more to marriage than four bare legs in a bed.
Four eyes see more than two.
It takes four living men to carry one dead man out of a house.
A horse may stumble that has four legs.
There belongs mair to a bed nor four bare leggs.
Among twenty four fools not ane wise man.
Take him up there with his five Egges, and four of them rotten.
An Horse may snapper on four feet.
One for sorrow, two for joy, three for a girl, four for a boy, five for silver, six for gold, and seven for a secret that must never be told.
The dog has four feet, but he does not walk in four roads at the same time.
Come out of it standing on all four.
The pursued runs on four feet, the pursuer on two.
A horse may stumble, though he has four feet.
A party of two is that of God; of three of the king; of four is of the devil.
Fair, good, rich, and wise, is a woman four stories high.
He is a horse with four white feet.
One for sorrow; two for mirth; three for a wedding; four for a birth.
Wherever you go, an okka is four hundred dirhem.
Three Spaniards, four opinions.
Four eyes see more than two.
Give ear to that man who has four ears.
Four eyes see more than two.
The four seasons are salt, pepper, mustard and vinegar.
One can lose four and eight.
Where there is no jealousy a small hare's leather is enough to cover four people.
A horse stumbles that has four legs.
Four eyes see more than two.
He that has but four and spends five, has no need of a purse.
God save us from four people: doctors, notaries, pharmacists, and bad bosses.
There are four things to which you should not lend credence: love of women, the charity of friars, sun in the winter, and clouds in the summer.
The ideal is a four year old dog, an eight year old horse, an eighteen year old woman and a twenty eight year old man.
Four things do not let themselves be hidden: fire, mange, coughing and love.
Give him a foot and he'll take four.
Be a lion at home and a fox abroad.
One cannot strip two hides from one fox.
A sleeping fox finds no meat.
Never ask a fox to mind the hens.
A fox is not caught twice in the same snare.
Necessity turns lion into fox.
Necessity changes a lion into a fox.
The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap.
Where the skin of the lion does not suffice, we must join that of the fox.
A sleeping fox counts chicken in his dreams.
A foolish fox is caught by one leg, but a wise one by all four.
When the fox is hungry, he eats butterflies.
A fox is in trouble because of his own pelt.
The fox will catch you with cunning, and the wolf with courage.
A fox smells its own stink first.
The sleeping fox catches no poultry.
You can have no more of the fox than his skin.
It is not for my own sake, said the fox, "that I say there is a good goose-green in the wood."
The fox changes his skin, but keeps the rogue.
Where the lion's skin falls short, borrow of the fox.
Bear and bull catch no fox.
The fox does not prey near his hole.
Putting the fox to mind the geese.
They said to the fox, the fox said to its tail.
The fox falls into the trap only once.
When the fox cannot reach the grapes he says they are not ripe.
The fox that waits until the chicken falls from the perch dies from hunger.
The fox knows much, but more he that catcheth him.
With the fox one must play the fox.
The fox said the grapes were sour.
Through being too knowing the fox lost his tail.
The more the fox is cursed, the more prey he catches.
If a fox is preaching, then beware of your geese.
Let every fox take care of his own tail.
When the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox.
When the fox preaches, look to the geese.
The fox did not reach the grape, said it's unripe.
It is not only the fox, even the snail arrives at its destination.
When a dog ages, the fox pees on it.
The fox can lose his fur but not his cunning.
Sour said the fox about rowan berries.
An old fox doesn't go twice into the trap.
The fox never fares better than when he's bann'd.
The fox may lose his hair, but not his cunning.
The fox that sleeps in the morning has not his tongue feathered.
The fox knows a lot, but a woman in love knows even more.
If the lion's skill will not do, we must sew on that of the fox.
When a fox walks lame, the old rabbit jumps.
Every fox praises its tail.
For our sins God has created three enemies for us: mice in the house, the fox in the mountains, and a priest in our village.
When a fox preaches, take care of your geese.
A fox barks not when he would steal the lamb.
A lion at home, and a fox abroad.
The fox must be chased away first after that the hen might be warned against wandering into the bush.
If you haven't any sheep you won't know that a fox is a wild animal.
A fox does not smell his own stench.
Though the fox wear silk, he is still a fox.
The sleeping fox catches no chickens.
Long runs the fox, but at last is caught.
Don't put the fox to guard the henhouse.
When the fox preaches, beware of your geese.
The village slatternly wench has the form of a dove, the heart of a fox, and the mind of an toad.
What the wolf mourns is food for the fox.
Own kin are the worst friends, said the fox, when he saw the foxy dogs after him.
When the fox preaches to the goose her neck is in danger.
When the fox licks his paw let the farmer look after his geese.
Take care of your geese when the fox preaches.
It is difficult to trap an old fox.
When the goose trusts the fox then woe to her neck.
Relatives are the worst friends, said the fox as the dogs took after him.
An old fox does not run twice into the snare.
What the lion cannot manage to do the fox can.
It is a poor fox that has but one hole.
What the lion cannot, the fox can.
When the fox wants to catch geese, he wags his tail.
Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox.
Hunger will lead a fox out of the forest.
The fox which was caught in a snare called: If I shall not get the whole chicken, I will not be satisfied with the drumstick.
Though the fox runs, the pullets have wings.
Every fox likes a henroost.
A sleeping fox catches no hare, chicken.
At length the fox is brought to the furrier.
At length the fox turns monk.
The sleepy fox has seldom feathered breakfasts.
He sets the fox to keep his geese.
When the fox preaches then beware your geese.
An old fox needs learn no craft.
For lack of hens the fox catches crows.
Do not eat your chicken and throw its feathers in the front yard.
Never stand in front of a judge or behind a donkey.
Behind the dog it is "dog,” in front of it, it's "mister dog.”.
Beautiful from behind, ugly in front.
It is easy to dodge a spear that comes in front of you but hard to avoid an arrow shot from behind.
If everyone swept the pavement in front of his house, the whole street would be clean.
The flower has no front or back.
Reading scripture in front of a donkey.
Do not walk behind us, we may not lead; do not walk in front of us, we may not follow; walk besides us, so that we may guide each other.
Beware of the cat that licks from the front but claws from behind.
Do not tell secrets in front of servants.
Death is in front of the old person and at the back of the young person.
If everyone swept in front of his house, the whole town would be clean.
Beware of the front of a bull, the back of a horse and both sides of a blind man.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back or a fool from any side.
Sweep in front of your own door before you look after your neighbor's.
A dog does not always bark at the front gate.
Do not put your head in front of your words.
While keeping a tiger from the front door, the wolf comes in at the back.
Teach your son in the front garden and your wife on the pillow.
If you want visitors then you leave your front door open.
If you're not at the war front its easy to assume we didn't put up a good fight.
Teeth placed in front of the tongue give good advice.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back, or a fool from any side.
By being in front everywhere one may get a telling-off.
Who is in front everywhere often gets a nose-burn.
The old never lack for a story when they're standing in the sun or in front of a warm fireplace.
It has stuck fast by one of the front legs.
Never approach a goat from the front, a horse from behind, and a fool from either side.
Fear the goat from the front, the horse from the rear, and a man from all sides.
A prudent man will read the letter from back to front.
The leader follows in front.
A precipice in front of you, and wolves behind you; that is life.
A precipice is in front, a wolf behind.
Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald; if you seize her by the forelock, you may hold her, but, if suffered to escape, not Jupiter himself can catch her again.
The best place for criticism is in front of your mirror.
When the sun is setting outside so that you cannot even recognise the hand in front of you, go indoors!
When liars enter by the city gate, in front of them there is a finger pointing at them, behind them there is a finger pointing at them.
Black miller and white blacksmith are shocking in front of the God.
Don't walk behind me; i may not lead. don't walk in front of me; i may not follow. walk beside me that we may be as one.
Display one's proficiency of axe in front of the master carpenter.
Beware of the goat from its front side, of the horse - from its back side, and the evil man - from any side.
Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald.
He who has not yet reached the opposite shore should not make fun of him who is drowning.
When a mouse makes fun of a cat, there is a hole.
Children: one is one, two is fun, three is a houseful.
Who is always sad, does not even have fun when drunk.
A monkey makes fun of the red behinds of his fellow monkeys.
One camel does not make fun of another camel's hump.
Time flies when you're having fun.
A poor man would like to have some fun, but he cannot find the right place.
The fun is in the search, not the finding.
It is more fun doing evil than putting it right.
When cockroach get in a trouble, him well glad fe fun go hide a fowl-house.
One camel does not make fun of the other camel's hump.
Never make fun of a ferengi's mother... Insult something he cares about instead.
Let not turn fun to mischief.
Beating drums is fun, but also tiring.
Even paradise is no fun without people.
Fun is like fine beer it is rarely enjoyable alone.
One camel does not make fun of the other camel's hump.
Consider whether your fun will cause another's unhappiness.
Have fun while you live, because you are going to be dead a long time.
Old friends are the best, but new ones are the most fun.
There's no fun in physics, but a good deal of physics in fun.
The First glass is for health, the second - for joy, the third - for fun, the fourth - for madness.
My son, too old is the earth don't make fun of it.
It seems like folly to give comfits to a cow [Mod] – It can be fun anyway.
Those who derive fun watching lunatics, out to have one as a child or relation to know the pains of it.
Make fun of the man, not of his hat.
The old woman doesn't want fun, she wants bread, wine, and fire.
It's fun to be a guest.
One cup (of liquor) is for health, second one is for fun, third one is for nothing.
Although there's nothing to eat, life is fun.
Consider whether your fun will cause another's unhappiness.
Work done, have your fun.
For a job we need time. For fun we need one hour.
It is no fun to guard a house with two doors.
Laws catch flies but lets hornets go free.
He who is free of faults, will never die.
Thought is free.
Advice is a free gift that can become expensive for the one who gets it.
Four walls make a man free.
The sick man is free to say all.
A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return.
Nice words are free, so choose ones that please another's ears.
Good advice once was worth a camel; now that it is free of charge, no one takes it.
News that's for money today will be for free tomorrow.
The rainbow would be even more beautiful if the show was not for free.
They are happy, the free men that have their fathers.
The world goes as men make it go; and men are free to make it go otherwise, if they have the courage.
He who wants what God wants of him will lead a free and happy life.
Vinegar that is free, is sweeter than honey.
When the wine is free even the judge drinks it.
Even the judge was drunk when the wine was free.
Free ships, free goods.
Better to be a free dog than a caged lion.
Work makes free.
Thoughts are toll free, but not hell free.
You should not demise what you get for free.
It's a free country.
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.
It is better to be a free man in a small house than a slave in a big one.
Better a free bird than a king in captivity.
Rather free in a foreign place than a slave back home.
The cockroach inside the oakum, the more it tries to free itself, the more it's caught.
Prepare the fallow field well enough and you'll be free to go off and gather the hemp ties.
Death does not come free of charge, for it costs us our life.
Freedom for the free and heaven for the saved.
It is very savoury to eat scot free.
Laws, like the spider's web, catch the fly and let the hawk go free.
The truth will set you free.
Don't be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts.
Never be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts.
Free advice is seldom cheap.
You can't free a fish from water.
The mind is free and the slightest thought has great influence. It is therefore important that you think enlightened thoughts.
One who is free to sin, sins less; the very power weakens the seeds of sin.
Only the owner can free his home from mice.
The saving man becomes the free man.
The people sitting in the free theater seats are the first ones to boo.
Those who have free seats at the play are the first to hiss.
There ain't no such thing as a free lunch.
Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?
There's no such thing as a free lunch.
Why pay for the cow when the milk is free?
You can't free a fish from water.
A heart free from care is better than a full purse.
He who is a slave of truth is a free man.
Cleanse thy heart from greed, and thy foot shall remain free from fetters.
How can the person who is eating dates prohibit the eating of dates? It's better to be a free dog than a caged lion.
You are still a slave if only your limbs are free.
All are not free who mock their chains.
Better free in a foreign land than a serf at home.
If you live in my heart, you live rent free.
Petty thieves are hanged, the great ones go free.
All men are free of other men's goods.
Do not spur a free horse.
Keep your tongue a prisoner, and your body will gang free.
A man who is advised and he takes it, is still a man who acts from his own free will.
Fools are free all the world over.
Why buy a cow if you can get the milk for free.
They are not free who drag their chains behind them.
Feel free to jabber, Emelya-it's your week.
Spur not a free horse to death.
What the law will compel you to do, do of your own free will.
The best things in life are free.
May your journey be free of incident.
The exhausting aspen trembled: wish I were a free coniferous tree!
Free things decrease one's intelligence.
"Du gamla, du fria” (Thou ancient, Thou free) is the title of the de facto national anthem of Sweden.
The truth shall set you free, or The truth will set you free.
Yoke not a camel and a cat together. Be free to ask ‘Why?'
Thought is free.
He's free o' fruit that wants an orchard.
The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free.
Without a cat, mice feel free.
When the snake is old, the frog will tease him.
A frog living at the bottom of the well thinks that the sky is as small.
When an elephant is in trouble even a frog will kick him.
Every frog has his own pond.
When the water goes uphill, the frog sings AbuAta.
A man with little learning is like the frog who thinks its pond is an ocean.
The frog likes water, but not boiling water.
The frog in his pond sneers at the ocean.
If the father is a frog, the son will be a frog.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
Every little frog is great in his own bog.
If you have to swallow a frog, try not to think about it. If you have to swallow two frogs, don't swallow the smaller one first.
Every frog must know its sole-leather.
The frog wanted to be an ox and swelled up until he burst.
Necessity makes the frog jump.
Even a frog would bite if it had teeth.
The frog does not jump in the daytime without reason.
Frog in a coconut shell.
Frog never gargle him troat till him tas'e fresh water.
The frog will jump back into the pool, although it sits on a golden stool.
Come fish, come frog, all goes into the basket.
It is easy to tempt a frog to the river.
With a frog in the well you don't talk about the ocean.
Choose the stone by the size of the frog.
The frog squashed the hardest croaks the louder.
The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives.
The frog does not tire in the water.
If a frog leaves the swamp for the mountains, it means it is in danger.
The frog knows more about the rain than the calendar.
A frog in a well-shaft seeing the sky.
The frog likes water but not when it's boiling.
Every frog is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother.
The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives.
It's a poor frog who doesn't play with his own pond.
It's better to be a big frog in a little pond than a little frog in a big pond.
Though you seat the frog on a golden stool, he'll soon jump off again into the pool.
The frog cannot out of her bog.
It is below the bottom of a frog.
He swallows the frog.
He shouts snake and frog at somebody.
The frog saw how the horses were shod, so she also lifted up her foot.
Would you take water to the frog?
The voice of the frog is the glory of the marsh waters.
Fattening frog for snake.
A frog in a well shaft.
When a rat swims with a frog, it dies of cold.
If you tie a frog on the leg a snake will follow you.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
One frog spoilt all the water.
Better a good neighbour than a distant friend.
A good friend will fit you like ring to finger.
A friend in need is a friend in deed.
Any wise enemy is better than an ignorant friend.
Cheese, wine, and a friend must be old to be good.
A friend to all is a friend to none.
To be without a friend is to be poor indeed.
Always hold a true friend with both of your hands.
An old friend is better than two new ones.
When you are in difficulty, go to the house of your friend -- not your sister's.
A friend in need, is a friend indeed.
A book is a good friend when it lays bare the errors of the past.
A friend will wipe away sweat but not blood.
The tongue that belongs to a fake friend is sharper than a knife.
A good friend is better than a near relation.
A friend is worth more than a brother.
Never mind storms and snows for the sake of a friend.
The friend who helps me and the enemy who does me no harm, make a pair of earrings.
Choose a friend with the eyes of an old man, and a horse with the eyes of a young one.
Dine with a friend but do not do business with him.
Your pocket is your friend.
The earth is man's only friend.
A friend is like a poem.
When you have an ass for a friend, expect nothing but kicks.
When a friend asks, there is no tomorrow.
Everybody's friend, nobody's friend.
Who finds a faithful friend, finds a treasure.
Better a friend at court than gold on the finger.
Make a friend when you don't need one.
A friend when in need is a faithful friend.
You get to really know your friend when trouble comes.
Renounce a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak.
Go often to the house of thy friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path.
An onion shared with a friend tastes like roast lamb.
If your friend is honey, don't lick it all.
If your friend is like honey, don't lick all of it.
Your friend chooses pebbles for you and your enemy counts your faults.
There is no better friend than a burden.
You know who your friend and your enemy are during difficult moments.
A friend is someone who shares your happiness and your pains.
A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple.
Every rose has a thorn as its friend.
It is always a pleasure to greet a friend from afar.
Wealth is both an enemy and a friend.
An intelligent foe is better than a stupid friend.
If your friend is honey, don't lick him thoroughly.
All people have their friend and their enemy within themselves.
No road is too long in the company of a friend.
It is easy to dodge the arrow of an enemy, but difficult to avoid the spear of a friend.
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.
A real friend is one who takes the hand of his friend in times of distress and helplessness.
A real friend takes the hand of his friend in overwhelming worry and fire.
An old friend is like a saddled horse.
The rose is a friend of the thorn.
Don't tell your important secret to your friend because your friend has his other friends as well.
An intelligent enemy is better than a stupid friend.
When your friend gives your wife an expensive present, it's time to get suspicious.
Being a good friend of a scorpion doesn't mean that you can't be stung by a honeybee.
He who is first to receive something forgets when his friend will receive their share.
Enjoy breakfast all alone, share lunch with your best friend and give dinner to your enemy.
If you have figs in your knapsack, everyone will want to be your friend.
The monk gets married to please his friend.
He is my friend that helps me, and not he that pities me.
Before borrowing money from a friend decide which you need most.
He who asks more of a friend than he can bestow deserves to be refused.
Take a friend for what he does, a wife for what she has, and goods for what they are worth.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
Better an honest enemy than a false friend.
My friend's enemy is often my best friend.
Your friend's enemy might be your best friend.
Everyone's companion is no one's friend.
If you have a good friend, you don't need a mirror.
I would rather have a dog my friend than enemy.
A secret is a weapon and a friend.
The best looking-glass is the eyes of a friend.
Your friend and your enemy think you will never die.
Don't be hard and don't be soft and don't desert your friend for your own share.
There is no need like the lack of a friend.
It is better in times of need to have a friend rather than money.
Better the friend we can see than the money we cannot.
Once a friend, always a friend.
What can the enemy do when the friend is cordial.
A morsel eaten gains no friend.
He never was a friend who ceased to be so for a slight cause.
He who warns, a good friend is.
If you have a friend who is a physician, send him to your enemy's house.
He is your friend who gets you out of a scrape.
Forget the past, but look out in the future.
Burn your enemies caravan and you burn you future.
A person worries about the past, distresses about the present, and fears the future.
Like the chameleon, one eye on the future, one eye on the past.
If you want to give God a good laugh, tell him of your future plans.
The earth is not ours, it is a treasure we hold in trust for future generations.
Who has no past, has no future.
The future emerges from the past.
Children yoke parents to the past, present and future.
Look to the past to help us move forward in the future.
Consider the past and you shall know the future.
Don't try to make predictions - especially those concerning the future.
The person who predicts the future is lying, even when he is right.
He who foretells the future lies, even if he tells the truth.
Whosoever chooses to deny their past can not expect to find a future.
A diviner cannot accurately divine his own future.
He invites future injuries who rewards past ones.
The future is for those who know how to wait.
The past is for God, the future for the Tsars.
Learn about the future by looking at the past.
To give away is to make provision for the future.
When you talk about future happenings the devil starts to laugh.
When men speak of the future, the gods laugh.
Everything in the past died yesterday, and everything in the future is born today.
Men see only the present; heaven sees the future.
You can be cautious about the future but not the past.
All the past died yesterday; the future is born today.
Don't let your past dictate your future.
Dreams are related to the past but connected to the future.
A spiritual leader is able to see the past, present and the future.
He who eats an egg foregoes a future meal of chicken soup.
You can drive sixty miles a minute, but there is no future in it.
The future belongs to those who prepare for it.
Don't mortgage the future for the present.
He who has no future loses his grip on the present.
Never think of the future; it comes soon enough.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present; a kiss to greet the future.
Every future is not far away.
For every glance behind us, we have to look twice to the future.
May the saddest day of your future be no worse than the happiest day of your past.
May you have a bright future – as the chimney sweep said to his son.
A good well-lived today makes every yesterday a dream of a good future, and every morning is a vision of hope.
If an offense has hurt you too much, leave it, my friend, for a future time.
The future belongs to the man who rises early.
The future struggles against being mastered.
He who hath lost his good name how shall he in future gain his living.
As to what is future, even a bird with a long neck cannot see it, but God only.
Present afflictions may tend to our future good.
One man can summon the future.
Youths look at the future, the elderly at the past, our ancestors live in the present.
It is well to remember that there are five reasons for drinking the arrival of a friend, one's present or future thirst, the excellence of the wine, or any other reason.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
It is not at the table but in prison that you learn who your true friends are.
A thousand friends are few; one enemy is too many.
When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends.
The friends of our friends are our friends.
The first day you meet, you are friends. The next day you meet, you are brothers.
Do not protect yourself with a fence, but rather by your friends.
If you don't have a hundred rubles, make sure you have a hundred friends.
Tell me who your friends are and i'll tell you who you are.
The deceitful have no friends.
Kings have no friends.
Pretty wife, old wine -- many friends.
I can only get better if I have good friends.
There are three kinds of enemy: the enemy himself, the friends of your enemy, and the enemies of your friends.
The world is a rose: smell it and pass it on to your friends.
The ambitious one makes friends with the elephant, then tramples upon the ant.
If you live in the river you should make friends with the crocodile.
The person who only accepts friends without faults will never have any real friends.
If you want to know who your friends are, lie by the roadside and pretend to be drunk.
One enemy is too many; 100 friends are far too few.
It is easier to visit friends than to live with them.
It's easier to know your enemies than to know your friends.
Pretend you're in great danger, and you'll find out if you have any friends.
You will discover your true friends in moments of crisis.
By all means make friends with the dog, but do not lay aside the stick.
You have a lot of friends if you have money; otherwise there are only strangers.
One simple maxim is often worth more than two good friends.
The tortoise is friends with the snail: those with shells keep their shells close together.
Do not protect yourself by a fence, but rather by your friends.
Absent friends get further away every day.
There are formalities between the closest of friends.
Over-intelligent people can't find friends.
The prickly branches of the palm tree do not show preference even to friends.
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.
Time flies when you are among friends.
It is easier to wage war with wise enemies than be at peace with foolish friends.
A donkey has two friends: his two hind legs.
Don't tell your important secret to your friend because your friend has his other friends as well.
Between two friends even water drunk together is sweet enough.
A benevolent man should allow a few faults in himself to keeps his friends in countenance.
Pay your debts or lose your friends.
It is good to have some friends both in heaven and hell. (1640)
When friends ask, there is no tomorrow.
God's friends, the priest's foe.
Who makes friends of all, keeps none.
One enemy can harm you more than a hundred friends can do you good.
One foe is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.
He who has no enemies also has no friends.
Law is costly; shake hands and be friends.
Good accounts make good friends.
Eat beans for lunch and have no friends at the dinner table.
The best of friends must part.
It is better to be in chains with friends, than to be in a garden with strangers.
Of everything else the newest; of friends, the oldest.
Tell your friends a lie; if he keeps it secret tell him the truth.
Short reckonings make long friends.
Poverty parteth friends.
Friends are friends, business are business.
Friends are known in adversity.
There's no living without friends.
He who has a good next, finds good friends.
An empty purse frights away friends.
Friends are flowers in the garden of life.
Old truths, old laws, old friends, old books, and old wine are best.
These can never be true friends: Hope, dice, a prostitute, a robber, a cheat, a goldsmith, a monkey, a doctor, a distiller.
When good cheer is lacking, our friends will be packing.
One enemy is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.
Save us from our friends.
I protect myself from my enemies; may God protect me from my friends.
Old friends are always new.
Old wine and friends improve with age.
One enemy is too much for a man, and a hundred friends too few.
The poor is hated by his neighbour, but the rich hath many friends.
Blessed is the man who has friends, but woe to him who needs them.
Even in hell it is good to have friends.
The winner has many friends, the loser has good friends.
Tell me who your friends is, I'll tell you who you are.
Of everything else the newest; of friends, the oldest.
A thousand friends are too few; one enemy is one too many.
The enemy of a father will never be friends of his son.
The only friends we have are the mountains.
The kurds have no friends.
If the owner of two adjacent farms cannot be friends, then they must wait till their next reincarnation to be able to make friends.
On the road between the homes of friends, grass does not grow.
If you marry a young woman, make sure your friends stay outside.
A dog with a bone knows no friends.
All are not friends who smile on you.
One God, one wife, but many friends.
Learn who are your friends when you are in need.
Friendship is friendship, but keep our tobacco apart.
Don't allow the grass to grow on the path of friendship.
Friendship does not need pepper to cry.
Mutual gifts cement friendship.
Better to lose a little money than a little friendship.
Friendship reminds us of fathers, love of mothers.
Friendship is honey - but don't eat it all.
As mills require two stones, so friendship requires two heads.
Friendship is not born of words alone.
Adversity is the touchstone of friendship.
Friendship doubles joy and halves grief.
Friendship, we call it friendship, but without sincerity.
Love without friendship is like a shadow without the sun.
The friendship of water and fish.
If you choose to make friendship with a pig you must be prepared to live in the mad.
Envy is destroyed by true friendship.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
True friendship is like one soul living in two bodies.-.
In times of difficulty, friendship is on trial.
For the friendship of two, the patience of one is required.
Money and friendship break the arms of justice.
To eat from the same pot with another man, is to take an oath of perpetual friendship with him.
Justice knows no friendship.
An offer of friendship to a friend's foe is unbecoming an honorable man.
In the division of inheritance, friendship standeth still.
Friendship is one thing and tobacco is another.
An ounce of blood is worth more than a pound of friendship.
When spherical bodies can unite and embrace, then there will be friendship amongst the avaricious.
Friendship likes distance.
Everything is for sale, even friendship.
There is mingling in friendship when man can utter all his whole mind to another.
A youth that does not cultivate friendship with the elderly is like a tree without roots.
Friendship is a furrow in the sand.
Because friendship is pleasant, we partake of our friend's entertainment; not because we have not enough to eat in our own house.
A friendship that dies is never reborn.
Treachery darkens the chain of friendship, but truth makes it brighter than ever.
Kinsmen are born, but friendship is a gift of the Gods.
The more intimate the friendship the deadlier the enmity.
Those who make friendship with a club shouldn't expect a good handshake.
There are many kinds of fruit that grow on the tree of life, but none so sweet as friendship.
Real friendship is a slow grower.
No friendship can survive the gift of gold.
Friendship is an empty word if it only works one way.
A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound.
Distrust is poison to friendship.
Gifts make friendship lasting.
Gold is proved in the fire, friendship in need.
Praise paves the way to friendship.
Reconciled friendship is like a badly healed wound.
Your friendship is your needs answered.
True friendship does not freeze in the winter.
May the hinges of our friendship never grow rusty.
Friendship with a fool may turn into the hug of a bear .
Broken friendship may be soldered but can never be made sound.
In adversity is when friendship is proven.
Friendship should be unpicked, not rent.
Reconciled friendship is a wound ill salved.
The friendship of the great is fraternity with lions.
Dog and cat friendship.
Friendship stands not in One side.
A cup of coffee commits one to forty years of friendship.
Clear pacts, long friendship.
Where malice has taken root, friendship can never be formed.
The sweetest grapes are picked from the vineyard of friendship.
The friendship of a great man is like the shadow of a bush -- soon gone.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
Satan's friendship reaches the prison door.
A son-in-law's friendship is a winter's sun.
To offer friendship to one who is looking for love, is like giving bread to someone dying of thirst.
Friendship broken may be soldered, but never made whole.
Friendship lasts as long as the pot boils.
Offer not the right hand of friendship to every one.
Both are the better for their mutual friendship.
A trifling pledge of no small friendship.
The silence resulting from absence has destroyed many a friendship.
Family before Friendship.
Perfect friendship cannot be without equality.
Illness is the steelyard of friendship.
May your friendship not be like a stone: if it breaks you cannot put the pieces together. May it be like iron: when it breaks, you can weld the pieces back together.
Friendship is a prodigal, but love is a miser.
Like a shadow in the morning, the friendship of the ignoble man is great at first, then gradually decreases and disappears. Like a shadow in the after noon, the friendship of the noble man is small at first, then gradually increases.
No friendship is strong that owes its rise to a pot. Недолговечна дружба, возникшая за обе денным столом.
Friendship is love with intelligence.
A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound.
Buy friendship wi' presents, and it will be bought frae you.
Friendship canna stand aye on ae side.
Don't maintain a friendship with cops because you'll lose your wine and your cigars.
The branch that bears the most fruit bends itself thankfully towards the ground.
The best of mankind is a farmer the best food is fruit.
A woman's belly is a garden with many kinds of fruit.
Forbidden fruit tastes best.
You don't have to cut a tree down to get at the fruit.
The patient thief is as a tree whose root runs deep as he waits for the sweet fruit..
Not all the tree's blossoms will bear fruit.
Not all the flowers of a tree produce fruit.
The trees with most leaves will not necessarily produce juicy fruit.
Tree would bend when it bears fruit.
Bitter fruit will fall before the ripe.
Large trees give more shade than fruit.
When eating the fruit, think of the person who planted the tree.
Correction bringeth fruit.
An ass does not appreciate fruit compote.
The prickly pear has company only when it bears fruit.
Everyone stones the tree that bears fruit.
Vanity blossoms but bears no fruit.
What you give to others bears fruit for yourself.
A fruit tree that grows in a dung heap will certainly blossom.
A ripened fruit does not cling to the vine.
Away from home the girl picks forbidden fruit.
Patience is bitter, but it has a sweet fruit.
See the weakest fruit drops earliest to the ground.
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit.
The oldest trees often bear the sweetest fruit.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
As the tree, so the fruit; as the mistress, so the maid.
He who wants fruit should not pick flowers.
There is no worse fruit than that which never ripens.
Forbidden fruit is sweetest.
He that would have the fruit, must climb the tree.
The tree is known by its fruit.
Sow good and you'll reap good; sow bad and you'll reap bad. You don't have to cut down a tree to get its fruit.
Even the best tree sometimes has bad fruit.
To do one's duty is to eat the prized fruit of honor.
Whatever the tree, so is the fruit.
Boldness is the fruit of hope.
High trees give more shadow than fruit.
He who plants fruit-trees, must not count upon the fruit.
It is only the tree loaded with fruit that the people throw stones.
Looking at a tree see its fruit; looking at a man see his deeds.
You shake in vain the branch that bears no fruit.
An udara fruit that falls by the roadside must want to be picked up and eaten.
An udara fruit that falls on the side of the road is asking to be eaten.
Let none put faith in the first sown fruit.
From the tree of silence hands the fruit of tranquility.
The chakata fruit on the ground belongs to all, but the one on the tree is for she who can climb.
Intelligence is a fruit picked in the neighbour's garden.
Who wakes and rises at the first cry of the songbird collects the best fruit of the night.
One generation plants the trees, the next eats the fruit.
He who enjoys the first fruit of a country is son of that country.
A tree is known by its fruit.
He is a fool who praises the fruit of a tree and forgets its roots.
When the fruit fails, welcome haws.
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
There are many kinds of fruit that grow on the tree of life, but none so sweet as friendship.
The fruit doesn't fall far from the tree.
If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower.
If you would enjoy its fruit, pluck not the blossom.
No root, no fruit.
Year of snow fruit will grow.
Не that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
Conversation is like making love; the man is the question, the woman the answer, and the union of both will bear fruit.
The fruit of timidity is neither gain nor loss.
The tree of silence bears the fruit of peace.
Flowers are the pledges of fruit.
A good tree bears good fruit.
When all fruit fails, welcome haws.
He that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
The better the fruit, the more wasps to eat it.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
All the fruit is not found in just one field.
Great trees give more shade than fruit.
The ripest fruit will not fall into your mouth.
Good fruit never comes from a bad tree.
Many desire the tree who pretend to refuse the fruit.
Even good tree has, sometimes bad fruit.
Like tree, like fruit.
Love is the fruit of idleness.
Patience is bitter, but it bears sweet fruit.
When a ripe fruit sees an honest man, it drops.
Many a man has been guarding the bush and another plucking the fruit.
If the tree doesn't bear fruit, cut it off at the base.
The mature fruit is cooked in August and dished out in September.
The haughty broad bean flowers and climbs but produces little fruit.
All the fruit will mature in a warm and dry September.
One hand full of money is stronger than two hands full of truth.
Active hands, full bellies.
A coward is full of precaution.
If charity cost nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists.
When the moon is not full, the stars shine more brightly.
Dog has to have its stomach full.
You are not a fully fledged sailor unless you have sailed under full sail, and you have not built a wall unless you have rounded a corner.
You became full by eating, it won't happen by licking.
Hell is full of good intentions.
A coconut shell full of water is a sea to an ant.
The rattan basket criticizes the palm leaf basket, still both are full of holes.
The mouth prays to Buddha, but the heart is full of evil.
Love is a garden full of flowers and marriage is a field of stinging nettles.
The heart of a servant that is not beaten is full of curses.
No matter how full the river, it still wants to swell more.
The one whose belly isn't full of straw isn't afraid of fire.
We are all wanderers on this earth. Our hearts are full of wonder, and our souls are deep with dreams.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
He who eats when he is full digs his grave with his teeth.
That which leaks cannot stay full.
The empty gives the way to the full.
However full the house, the hen finds a corner to lay in.
The jail is closed day and night and always full; temples are always open and still empty.
Empty houses are full of noises.
If you think you're too small to be noticed go and sleep in a room which is full of mosquitoes.
Hell is full of good meanings, but heaven is full of good works.
A full cup must be carried steadily.
An old man is a bed full of bones.
When asked, "What news from the sea?” The fish replied "I have a lot to say, but my mouth is full of water.”.
A handful of might is better than a sack full of right.
Instead of complaining that the rosebush is full of thorns, be happy that the thorn bush has roses.
A list full of gain and a village full of shame.
The full man does not understand the wants of the hungry.
The eyes of all cheats are full of tears.
Take from the hungry, give it to the full/satisfied.
A full man is no eater.
A beggar's wallet is never full.
One grain does not full the granary, but it helps its companion.
Don't talk with your mouth full.
I have a lot to say, said the fish, but my mouth is full of water.
A sack was never so full but that it would hold another grain.
The full belly does not believe in hunger.
A cask of wine works more miracles than a church full of saints.
The full cask makes no noise.
A full sack pricks up its ear.
A man of words and not deeds, Is like a garden full of weeds.
Every ditch is full of your after-wits.
He who knows the road can ride full trot.
The poorhouse is full of honest people.
It is easy for someone to talk about fasting when he has a full belly.
With a full belly it is easy to talk about fasting.
When the cat's stomach is full, the rat's back is bitter.
Hunger is misery; a full stomach is trouble.
You can say anything to a man with a full stomach.
Rat belly full, potato have skin.
One, one cocoa full basket.
The hungry belly and the full belly do not walk the same road.
An empty purse can't stand alone and a full purse can't bend.
Rainy march, beehives full of worms, and rams with colds.
When a pig has eaten its full, it pushes over its trough.
To get to know people, you have to eat a full donkey's cargo of salt together.
The stomach never gets full with licking.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
Literally: Go out for a day, get a full basket of knowledge.
A little bit of experience is better than a barrel full of knowledge.
A house full of people is a house full of different points of view.
If you are looking for a fly in your food it means that you are full.
Full cup, steady hand.
It is hard to blow with a full mouth.
It's ill speaking between a full man and a fasting.
More flies are caught with a spoonful of syrup than with a barrel full of vinegar.
One penny in the pot makes more noise than when it is full.
Standing with the mouth full of teeth.
Berry by berry, a basket will be full.
Eat until you are half full; drink until you are half drunk.
An empty knapsack is heavier to carry than a full one.
Life is short and full of blisters.
The best blessing for a good harvest is a pumpkin full of sweat.
Whatever you teach, be brief; what is quickly said the mind readily receives and faithfully retains, while everything superfluous runs over as from a full container. Who knows much says least.
The poor man's budget is full of schemes.
Eyes can see widely: they can cross a river in full flood.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
The baby that refuses its mother's breast, will never be full.
When the moon is full, it begins to wane.
A young doctor makes a full graveyard.
Jails are always closed yet full, while temples are always open yet empty.
Don't promise something when you are full of joy; don't answer letters when you are full of anger.
When you're speaking about the trolls, they're standing in the entrance hall listening.
All that's said in the kitchen should not be told in the hall.
It's good feasting in another's hall.
He that hears much and speaks not at all Shall be welcome both in bower and hall.”.
In a small house God has His corner, in a big house He has to stand in the hall.
You can't fight City Hall.
Snow made an angel to the hall.
Do in Hill, as ye wald do in Hall.
Bring a cow into the hall and she'll run the byre.
Wonder at your auld shoon when ye hae gotten your new.
Ye hae been smelling the bung.
Ye hae the best end a' the string.
A sturdy beggar should hae a stout nae-sayer.
I hae a scottish tongue in my head – if they speak i'se answer.
His eggs hae a' twa yolks.
Eild should hae honour.
He suld hae a langshankit spune that wad sup kail wi the deil.
You hae been smelling the bung.
Pigs may whistle, but they hae an ill mouth for't.
If marriages are made in heaven, you twa hae few friends there.
When husband and wife live in harmony, they can dry up the ocean without a bucket.
When a man finds that he was wrong to have refused to eat, he should leave his anger and play a harp to call for harmony.
Harmony creates accommodation.
Neither rhyme nor harmony.
Peace and harmony is great treasure.
To touch the earth is to have harmony with nature.
Touching the earth equates to having harmony with nature.
If I am in harmony with my family, that's success.
If there is beauty in character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
If there is light in the soul, there will be beauty in the person. If there is beauty in the person, there will be harmony in the house. If there is harmony in the house, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
Stealing may bring profit, but hanging costs far more.
A good meal is worth hanging for.
Heroism consists of hanging on one minute longer.
Catching's before hanging.
What is hanging up, cannot be reached sitting down.
The hanging fruit is never too heavy for the creeper to bear.
A woman wearing trousers? What has she got hanging in there?
A severely under paid hungry teacher in a renovated, well-equipped classroom, can perform just as well as a bird without feathers can do in a hanging, decorated cage.
Catch before hanging.
The goats pasture with bells hanging from their necks in order not to stray.
A thief's end is hanging.
Better afield with the birds than hanging on lords.
There are more ways of killing a dog than hanging it.
There's mair ways o' killing a dog than hanging him.
When a man finds that he was wrong to have refused to eat, he should leave his anger and play a harp to call for harmony.
It is a man with a harp who should decide how he is going to sleep.
Did you ever hear an ass play on a harp?
You harp perpetually on the same string.
The harp dispels care.
Harp not on that string.
Don't take your harp to the party.
Harp not for ever on the same string.
All are not harpers, who hold the harp.
A handful of might is better than a sack full of right.
A smokey cabin, a handful of spuds and a flea-filled bed.
If you throw a handful of stones, one at least will hit.
Better to have a handful of might than a sack of justice.
A handful of dust, four capitals and shit on all i possessed.
A handful of trade, a handful of gold.
A handful of dirt is pleasing if it's your own land.
A handful of motherwit is worth a bushel of learning.
Better a handful of dried figs and content with that, than to own the gate of peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
Better a handful of dry dates and content therewith than to own the Gate of Peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
A handful of love is better than an oven full of bread.
The knowledge of a trade is worth a handful of gold.
A handful of love is better than an oven full of bread.
Nothing but a handful of dust will fill the eyes of man.
A handful of skill is better than a bagful of gold.
The world is like an old building on the banks of a stream – it carries away piece by piece; in vain you stop it with a handful of earth.
An handful of trade is an handful of gold.
Instead of having a handful of gold, it [could be better] to have a handful of earth (i.e. a piece of land).
The older the fool, the harder he falls.
It is harder work getting to hell than to heaven.
The scabbier the sheep the harder it bleats.
The higher the mountain the lower the valley, the taller the tree the harder the fall.
A man that is lean, not from hunger, is harder than brass.
Man is harder than rock and more fragile than an egg.
Working in the fields is hard, but hunger is harder.
The harder you fall, the higher you bounce.
Eating tough meat is always harder for a toothless lion.
The higher they fly, the harder they fall.
The higher you climb, the harder you may fall.
The bigger the tree, the harder she falls.
Bigger they are, the harder they fall.
One hair of a maiden's head pulls harder than ten yoke of oxen.
Man is harder than a stone and more brittle than an egg.
The bigger they are, the harder they fall.
The older buck gets, the harder become its horns.
Explaining something to an ignorant person is harder than making a camel jump over a ditch.
There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew, and that is fishing for a clam in the clam chowder.
There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew.
It is harder to be poor without complaining than to be rich without boasting.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than sword.
Habit is a second nature.
Wherever you go, habit follows.
Everything is formed by habit, even praying.
Habit is the sixth sense that dominates the other five.
Character is habit long continued.
The habit doesn't make the monk.
When a habit begins to cost money, it's called a hobby.
A habit is first a wanderer, then a guest, and finally the boss.
Habit is worse than rabies.
The habit of thinking is the habit of gaining strength.
Habit is a shirt that we wear till death.
Growing old is no more than another bad habit.
A bad habit that lasts more than a year may turn into a custom.
Who has a habit, will never leave it even if his finger gets cut.
A bad habit is like fire you can't play with it and expect not to get burnt.
Vice is often clothed in virtue's habit.
One time is no time - two times is a habit.
It is the habit that a child forms at home, that follows them to their marriage.
Wasting is a bad habit, saving is a sure income.
Every man has his peculiar habit.
Habit causes love.
Habit is second nature.
Habit gives readiness.
Pursue that course which offers most advantages, habit will soon make it agreeable and easy.
Vice is often clothed in virtue's habit.
I tell no, I don't you no but the habit in you prevails. AND the tail of the dog never straightens up even if you hang to it a brick.
If you make a habit of buying things you do not need.
A kitchen knife cannot carve its own handle.
A hunter's knife cannot carve its own handle.
No matter how sharp it is, a knife will never cut it's own handle.
Don't throw the handle after the bill.
When fate throws a dagger at you, there are only two ways to catch it: by the blade or by the handle.
He makes a hundred knives, none of which has a handle.
Handle the pudding while it's hot.
The bucket goes so often to the well that it leaves its handle there.
He that would heal a wound must not handle it.
The pitcher that goes often to the fountain leaves there either its handle or its spout.
You walk so long with a jar for water, until the handle breaks off.
If it's God's will the broom will lose its handle.
An axe with rio handle does not split firewood.
You cannot handle fire with your hands.
You cannot handle fire with your hands.
The two hardest things in life to handle are success and failure.
Success in life largely depends on how you handle your failures.
To handle yourself use your head to handle others use your heart.
You can't tell the depth of the well by the length of the handle on the pump.
The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves either its handle or its spout there.
He who buys the broom can also buy the handle.
Let God handle it, He's a venerable saint.
He that holds the handle of a frying-pan runs the risk of burning himself.
He who holds the handle of the frying-pan turns it as he pleases.
Anyone can make a spoon, but not everyone can make the handle.
The pitcher goes so often to the well, that it leaves its handle or its mouth.
The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves either its handle or its spout there.
One goes to fetch water with a jug for so long, until the handle breaks away.
You walk so long with a jar for water, until the handle breaks off.
You need to first experience adversity, before you can handle high praise.
God save me from my friends; my enemies I can handle myself.
A golden hammer breaks an iron gate.
The anvil lasts longer than the hammer.
A silver hammer can open an iron gate.
To a man who only has a hammer in his tool kit, every problem looks like a nail.
When your only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.
When you are an anvil be patient; when a hammer, strike.
The anvil is not afraid of the hammer.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, strike hard.
A good anvil does not fear the hammer.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, be strong.
Between hammer and anvil.
A hammer will shatter glass yet it can forge steel.
The hammer shatters glass but hardens steel.
When you are an anvil, bear; when you are a hammer, strike.
The smith's dog sleeps at the noise of the hammer, and wakes at the grinding of teeth.
Keep holding the hammer.
A hammer does not work with iron.
Until the nail is hit, it doesn't believe in the hammer.
Crooked iron may be straightened with a hammer.
Between the anvil and the hammer.
One must either be the hammer or the anvil.
The same hammer that breaks the glass forges the steel.
You are either hammer or anvil.
A silver hammer breaks an iron door.
It's better to be a hammer than a nail.
One must be either anvil or hammer.
When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
A hammer breaks glass, but also forms steel. Everything cannot be hung on one nail.
The same hammer that breaks the glass forges the steel.
It's the grinding of his teeth that awakes the blacksmith's dog, not the noise of the hammer.
Pray to God, but hammer away.
Close to a blacksmith, learn to hammer out nails; close to a carpenter, learn how to use a saw.
When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
If you are the anvil, suffer; if you are the hammer, strike.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, be strong.
Do not remove a fly from your friend's forehead with a hatchet.
A small hatchet fells a great oak.
When the tree is down, everyone runs to it with a hatchet to cut wood.
A hatchet in the mouth is more harmful than a hatchet in the hand.
To remove a fly from a friend's forehead never use a hatchet.
Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee.
They have buried the hatchet.
The helve of the lost hatchet.
No lock avails against a hatchet.
Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead.
The carpenter's wife has no batler, the smith's wife has no hatchet.
Bury the hatchet...Elássa a csatabárdot.
Give to him that has.
Who has not is not.
He who has, is.
What one has, one doesn't want, and what one wants, one doesn't have.
What one desires is always better than what one has.
It is not what is he, but what has he.
Any new saint-to-be has his miracles to make.
Who has, is.
He has a coat-affair.
Who has not, cannot.
When one has not what one likes, one must like what one has.
Every ananya has his melania.
The more one has the more one wants.
Any new saint-to-be has his miracles to make.
The more one has, the more one wants.
He who has much, wants more.
Hasty work doesn't succeed.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
The hasty man was never a traitor.
To a hasty question a leisurely answer.
A hasty work is seldom good.
Of hasty counsel take good heed, for haste is very rarely speed.
Hasty speed don't oft succeed.
Hasty speed is rarely good.
It is hasty speed that doesn't succeed.
A timely "no" beats a hasty "yes."
A timely "no” beats a hasty "yes.”.
A hasty man drinks his tea with a fork.
The hasty bitch gives birth to blind puppies.
Hasty work - shame for the craftsman.
Hasty work - shame for its creator.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Too hasty burned his lips.
The hasty bitch brings forth blind whelps.
Hasty questions require slow answers.
To a hasty demand a leisure reply.
Time flies with hasty step.
Hasty judgments begets remorse.
The man in mast, the hasty on deck.
A timely A timely "no" beats a hasty "yes."
Oh hasty one, God will delay you.
It is easier to be a happy bachelor for a year than a widower for a month.
If the townspeople are happy, look for the chief.
All happy endings are beginnings as well.
Two happy days are seldom brothers.
Bribery makes both parties happy.
He who trusts is happy; the doubter is wise.
Happy hours are very short.
Happy nations have no history.
All time spent angry is time lost being happy.
Put a rope around your neck and many will be happy to drag you along.
Divorce a young woman and you make another man happy.
Few desires, happy life.
They are happy, the free men that have their fathers.
Beat your wife on the wedding day, and your married life will be happy.
He who wants what God wants of him will lead a free and happy life.
If you are not a fish, how can you know if the fish are happy?
If there is only bread and onions, still have a happy face.
When a blind man is happy he gives money to his child to buy kerosene for his lamp.
Philosophy means being able to explain why you are happy when you are poor.
Always to court and never to wed is the happiest life that ever was led.
If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.
A happy man does not hear the clock strike.
Instead of complaining that the rosebush is full of thorns, be happy that the thorn bush has roses.
Like blood, like means, and like age, make the happiest marriage.
Many a happy colt makes a fine horse.
He who lives with hope dies happy.
Marriages are all happy; its having breakfast together that causes all the trouble.
Money alone can't make one happy.
True happiness consists in making others happy.
Happy is the woman whose husband does not speak to her.
Who is blind? He who can see no other world. Who is dumb? He who can say nothing pleasant about his lot. Who is poor? He who is troubled with too many desires. Who is rich? He who is happy with his lot.
Happy is she who is in love with an old dotard.
Happy is the bride that the sun shines on.
Happy is the country which has no history.
He is happy that knows not himself to be otherwise.
He is not happy who knows it not.
When we are at our happiest, then it is best to leave and go home.
If my neighbor is happy, my own work will go easier, too.
The person who trusts is happy; the person who doubts is wise.
The believer is happy; the doubter is wise.
When a miser dies, the heirs feel as happy as when they kill a pig.
Happy the marriage where the husband is the head and the wife the heart.
He who has no intelligence is happy with it.
A wise husband and a patient wife equal a peaceful home and a happy life.
What makes you happy, makes you rich.
He who lives with hope dies happy.
Who is the happiest person in the world? An unfaithful husband.
Happy is he who hath in himself praise and wisdom in life.
Where one is wise two are happy.
The place where you are happy is better than the place you were born.
The dead in heaven is too happy to grieve for indignities to his corpse; the dead in hell has too much else to grieve for.
Happy is the man who knows he's happy.
Happy people never count hours as they pass.
The happiest life ends before death.
You can never be happy at the expense of the happiness of others.
A satisfied man is happy even if he is poor; a dissatisfied man is sad even if he is rich.
Happy is the man without sickness. Rich is the man with no debts.
A man is happy when he has books, but happier still when he does not need them.
A man should not be too happy in the morning.
The happy man rises with the sun.
A happy man marries the girl he loves, but a happier man loves the girl he marries.
A good smile shows how happy the soul is.
Be in general virtuous, and you will be happy.
Early childhood should be as happy and carefree as you can make it.
Make a garden or plant, and a man is happy for life.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
Childhood should be happy and carefree.
Drink like hell and be happy.
The happiest place in the world to live is within one's income.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
A cobbler formed the shape of shoes on a wooden foot shaped last. If it lasted long he was happy.
There is an hour wherein a man might be happy all his life, could he find it.
Happy is the bride the sun shines on.
If ignorance is bliss, why aren't more people happy?
The riches of the mind may make a man rich and happy.
Happy wife, happy life.
There are two kinds of men: those who could be happy and are not, and those who search for happiness and find it not.
A deaf husband and a blind wife will always make a happy couple.
Happy he who can take warning from the mishaps of others.
Happy is he who knows his follies in his youth.
No one is happier than he who believes in his happiness.
May the saddest day of your future be no worse than the happiest day of your past.
The one who does not make you happy when he arrives makes you happy when he leaves.
He who wants to be happy must stay at home.
If you would be happy for a week take a wife; if you would be happy for a month kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life plant a garden.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter a pig and you will be happy for a month; become a priest and you will be happy for the rest of your life.
Call no man happy till he dies.
He who esteems none but himself is as happy as a king.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a pigeon on the roof.
A gentle hand may lead even an elephant by a single hair.
Bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
The hand that gives is also the one that receives.
He who willingly gives you a finger will also give you the whole hand.
You can't pick up two melons with one hand.
Hard work is the right hand of fate.
If the hand gives, but the heart does not, nothing happens.
Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand.
Better one bird in the hand than ten in the sky.
A bird in the hand has more worth than two flying.
You cannot applaud with one hand.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a cock on the roof.
One hand washes the other.
The best weapon is the one that's to hand.
You can catch a cricket in your hand but its song is all over the field.
Whichever hand is cut, the whole body feels the pain.
When the monkey can't reach the ripe banana with his hand, he says it is not sweet.
A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
How can one start a fast with baklava in one's hand.
When your hand is in the dog's mouth, withdraw it gently.
If a fool borrows a book, cut off his hand; but cut off both hands, of the fool who brings it back.
Old monkeys don't put their hand in jars.
Let every sheep hand by its own leg.
There is no hand to catch time.
You shake a man's hand, you don't shake his heart.
A clean hand wants no washing.
Not turning his hand around for it.
Put your hand in your conscience and see if it does not come out as black as pitch.
To resist with hand and tooth.
A titmouse in the hand is better than a crane in the sky.
Good comes from far away; evil is close at hand.
One hand can't applaud.
The hand which gives is better than the one which receives.
Be like the mouth and the hand: when the hand is hurt the mouth blows on it, when the mouth is hurt the hand rubs it.
A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple.
If one tells you the harira is cold, tell him to put his hand in it.
The hand you cannot bite, kiss.
You can't catch two frogs with one hand.
The palm of ones hand does not eclipse the sun.
The eye sees, but the hand can't reach.
You cannot hide the sun with one hand.
The hand suffers at work, but the mouth still must eat.
As the stone leaves your hand it belongs to the devil.
The hand of the child cannot reach the shelf, nor the hand of the adult get through the neck of the gourd.
Does the left hand chop off the right?
If the left hand battles the right, who wins?
Who picks a tool unsuited to a task should not complain if it does no more than cut the hand that holds it.
A pit of the tongue cannot be covered up by the hand.
When you are eating with a blind man, do not touch his hand.
A single hand can not nurse a child.
He who fights with a wall will only hurt his hand.
A single hand can not slaughter a cow.
The left hand washes the right and the right washes the left.
A bit of fragrance clings to the hand that gives flowers.
There is no point in offering a helping hand to someone who wants to drown.
The hand of the stranger is heavy.
Clapping with the right hand only will not produce a noise.
A real friend is one who takes the hand of his friend in times of distress and helplessness.
A real friend takes the hand of his friend in overwhelming worry and fire.
You can't clap with one hand.
Two watermelons can't be grabbed in one hand.
A broken hand can work but a broken heart can't.
A man doesn't escape from bees with a lump of honey in his hand.
A child's hand is not burned by hot yam which is placed into his palm by his mother.
It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand.
Put not thy hand between the bark and the tree.
Nothing enters into a close hand.
If you yourself can do it, attend no other's help or hand.
A secret is like a dove: when it leaves my hand it takes wing.
Two watermelons cannot be carried in one hand.
When you cannot bite a hand, kiss it.
One hand cannot clap.
A clean mouth and honest hand, will take a man through any land.
Between the hand and the lip the soup may be spilt.
Hat in hand goes through the land.
Let not thy right hand know what thy left hand doeth.
God gives, but man must open his hand.
Who takes the child by the hand takes the mother by the heart.
Bread in one hand, a stone in the other.
Open hand makes open hand.
The tree remains, but not so the hand that put it.
It's easy to knead when meal is at hand.
No stopping the force of a going wheel by hand.
A Single hand cannot wash itself even in the Danube river.
To have five drachmas in the hand is better than ten drachmas on paper.
Water does not trickle out of his hand.
He pushes it away with the hand, but pulls it forward with the foot.
The hare that escaped had eight legs.
‘Tis either a hare or a brake-bush.
Many dogs kill a hare, no matter how many turns it makes.
He is as easily caught as a hare with drums.
When the hare leaps, there are no lame greyhounds.
If the hare is your enemy, admit that he can run fast.
The hare and the elephant don't travel well together.
A hare is like an ass in the length of its ears, yet it is not its son.
If `almost' did not exist, said the woman, "than I would have shot a hare."
One catches the hare, another eats it.
The dog that starts the hare is as good as the one that catches it.
Nature will come through the claws, and the hound will follow the hare.
A little dog can start a hare, but it takes a big one to catch it.
It is hard to hunt the hare out of the bush it is not in.
The rabbit gets fat on what the hare misses.
One starts the hare, another catches it.
The hare starts from where it is least expected.
He makes the hare spring out of the bush.
It is not only the hare, the tortoise arrives also at the destination.
When we least expect it, the hare darts out of the ditch.
I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years.
First catch your hare, then cook it.
A fearful person even fears the hare.
You don't need a dog to catch a lame hare.
Deer-hunter, waste not your arrow on the hare.
Even a hare will bite when it is cornered.
Don't let the falcon loose until you see the hare.
When an elephant is dead, a hare will not smell.
One cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
While the dogs yelp, the hare flies to the wood.
Hold your dog in readiness before you start the hare.
In the long run, the greyhound kills the hare.
There is no point in showing the way to an old hare.
In the valley where there are no tigers the hare is king.
A sleeping fox catches no hare, chicken.
He did not shoot the hare but the pot is already on the fire.
If a dog is driven by a stick after a hare, he will not catch it.
The hare always returns to her form.
The hare starts when a man least expects it.
To catch a hare with a tabor.
Set a cow to catch a hare.
First catch your hare, then cook him.
We hounds flew the Hare, quoth the messoun.
You cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
Many hounds mean the death of the hare.
Things often happen when you least expect them to. Where we least think, there goes the hare away.
No Jew a fool; no hare lazy.
You compare the tortoise to the hare.
Drumming is not the way to catch a hare.
Find you without an excuse, and find a hare without a meuse.
A dog as he sleeps barks as if on the track of the hare.
The crab would catch the hare!
What! you a hare, and ask for hare-pie!
Many dogs may easily worry one hare.
Many hounds are the death of the hare.
To hunt for a hare with a tabor.
By chance a cripple may catch a hare.
First catch your hare.
Even a hare will insult a dead lion.
Even the rustling of leaves will alarm the hare.
The friend who helps me and the enemy who does me no harm, make a pair of earrings.
A flea can trouble a lion more than the lion can harm a flea.
One does harm, and another bears the blame.
Ask for a science that would be useful to you, would keep you from harm and shame, then elevate you.
A close mouth and open eyes never did any one harm.
What harm is there in a good word? It costs nothing.
One enemy can harm you more than a hundred friends can do you good.
A silent mouth never did any harm.
Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others.
The mare's kick does not harm the colt.
Cap in hand never did any harm.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Wise men learn by others' harm.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
Rotten straw can harm a healthy horse.
There's no harm in wine, it's drunkenness that is at fault.
If relatives help each other, what harm can be done to them?
If your motive is good, a farting donkey won't harm you.
Some who will not speak against another, in the end does them harm.
If we did not flatter ourselves, the flattery from others would not harm us.
The harm done by an elephant is like that done by a storm, or by the government.
After all, harming others means you first harm yourself.
The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm.
Put your hand quickly to your hat, and slowly in your purse, and you will take no harm.
He who is far from home, is near to harm.
Misfortune does not always result in harm.
Rust cannot do any harm to gold.
A man's hat in his hand, never did him any harm.
A fly doesn't harm anyone.
Water does harm but wine comforts.
Water does harm but wine makes you sing.
Women, money, and wine have their balm and their harm.
Harm watch, harm catch.
He who loves Peter won't harm his dog.
The gardener's feet do no harm to the garden.
It does no harm now and then to burn a candle for the devil.
To have been silent never does harm, but to have spoken does.
One who can do you a deal of good or a deal of harm.
An excess of caution does no harm.
Even if it does not benefit you, it will not harm you.
June damp and warm does the farmer no harm.
Meaning: Nature can help and harm you. The people (the water) can raise someone (a boat) to power, but can also take that power away (sinking the boat).
Who tells me of my faults is my teacher; who tells me of my virtues does me harm.
Hate not at the first harm.
Good counsel does no harm.
Blind zeal only does harm.
Prudence does no harm.
Good watch prevents harm.
Ten enemies cannot do a man the harm that he does to himself.
The head and feet keep warm; the rest will take no harm.
Every day the harm arising from carelessness is endured.
The mare's kick does not harm the colt.
A gentle hand may lead even an elephant by a single hair.
Judge not the dog by its hair.
I gave so much advice that hair grew on my tongue.
Children have a hair of their father.
A bald-headed man will not grow hair by getting excited.
A hair on the head is worth two on the brush.
A drowning man takes hold of his own hair.
Better wise language than well combed hair.
A single Russian hair outweighs half a Pole.
When a single hair has fallen from your head, you are not yet bald.
The bald woman boasts of her sister's hair.
Having grey hair because of old age is not a shame.
No matter how tall a camel is, it will never get taller than than the hair on its back.
Experience is a comb which fate gives to a man when his hair is all gone.
If the hair was precious, wouldn't grow on the ass.
Even a hair casts its shadow.
Ever one hair, only one, and the man is bald at last.
Misfortune, wood, and hair, grow throughout the year.
That miller is honest who has hair on his teeth.
Fair hair may have foul roots.
How easily a hair gets into the butter!
More hair than tit, like a mountain heifer.
All the wool is hair, more or less.
A dog never bit me but I had some of his hair.
A hair of the dog cures the bite.
Don't notice the tiny flea in the other person's hair and overlook the lumbering yak on your own nose.
When a bald man dies the mourners give him curly hair as a present.
Women have got long hair and short sense.
A single hair hides the mountain in the distance.
Often a troll-woman is under fair skin, and virtue under dark hair.
He that is bitten by a dog must apply some of its hair.
All is well: for if the bride has not fair hair, she has a fair skin.
Sitting with the hands in the hair.
The fox may lose his hair, but not his cunning.
There is no point in combing where there is no hair.
Grey hair into beard, devil into rib.
No one is dragged to heaven by the hair.
After the head is off, one does not cry over the hair.
A woman's tongue is longer than her hair.
A hair casts its shadow on the ground.
Wealth is like hair in the nose: it hurts to be separated whether from a little or from a lot.
Take a hair of the dog that bit you.
No married woman will have her white hair shaved at her mother's.
You cannot prevent the birds of sorrow from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from building nests in your hair.
A man combs his hair every morning -- why not his heart?
You cannot stop birds from flying over your head, but you can stop them nesting in your hair.
He who swallows an old man vomits grey hair.
If you see your brother being scalped, put water on your hair.
You can't keep the birds from flying over your head, but you can keep them from building a nest in your hair.
A rag and a bone and a hank of hair.
Take a hair of the dog that has bitten you.
Hair of the dog that bit you.
Beauty draws with a single hair.
Hair by hair and the head gets bald.
Falseness often lurks beneath fair hair.
One hair of a maiden's head pulls harder than ten yoke of oxen.
It is easy to work with a good comb, said the devil, when he combed his mother's hair with a pitchfork.
A bad hair cut is two people's shame.
Every hair casts its shadow.
The house is burning and Grandma is combing her hair.
No hair so small but has his shadow.
Bush natural; more hair than wit.
All are not maidens that wears bare hair.
Hair, and hair, makes the Carles head bare.
The pubic hair of a woman mounting is stronger than two pairs of ox descending.
One hair from the head of a woman pulls more than a ship's hauser.
Long on hair, short on brains.
Fools never get grey hair.
Cry not for the hair when the head is off.
"Your feet are crooked, your hair is good for nothing," said the pig to the horse.
Every hair casts its shadow.
The bad barber leaves neither hair nor skin.
What though his hair be gray, his mind is no less vigorous than ever.
Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald; if you seize her by the forelock, you may hold her, but, if suffered to escape, not Jupiter himself can catch her again.
Even a hair hath its shadow.
The hair is woman's crown.
A woman's hair is long, and her mind short.
"Botofe bo le iwa.” : Rubber is death (present day Congo proverb)
A bald-headed man will not grow hair by getting excited.
A fox will lose it's hair, but not it's tricks.
The old fox sheds its old hair, but not its old habits.
When cats are hairdressers, rats will always go around with uncombed hair.
Wealth is like hair in the nose: it hurts to be separated whether from a little or from a lot.
Wisdom is the comb given to a man after he has lost his hair.
Even a hair off the bear is serendipitous.
The bite of a dog is healed by the hair of it.
Long hair, short wit.
What you do in black hair you will eat in white hair.
Every hair makes its shadow.
We will fly that hawk when his pinions are grown.
You are blaming the hawk, the falcon is killing the chickens.
If you see Mt. Fuji, a hawk, and an eggplant on New Year's Day, you will be forever blessed.
The hawk with talent hides its talons.
Even a superb hawk will not catch game unless it is loosed.
The sparrow flying behind the hawk thinks the hawk is fleeing.
Hawk will not pick out hawk's eyes.
He that has a hawk has three hundred partridges.
The bird hunting a locust is unaware of the hawk hunting him.
Every bird has a hawk above it.
Laws, like the spider's web, catch the fly and let the hawk go free.
A clever hawk hides its talons.
When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk.
Quhiles the hawk hes, and whiles he hunger hes.
You cannot make a hawk of a buzzard.
A chicken's prayer doesn't affect a hawk.
He's a hawk of a right nest.
The drum sounds when the hawk appears wit ha rabbit.
A dog on the hay: will neither eat it himself, nor let others eat it.
Make hay while the sun shines.
To the donkey thorns taste better than hay.
A braying ass eats little hay.
Soon grass, soon hay.
If in february there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Time makes hay.
make your hay before the fine weather leaves you.
He looks for a needle in a bundle of hay.
All's alike at the latter day: a bag of gold and wisp of hay.
If the horse is already dead more hay will not help it.
When the sun shines is the time to make up hay.
A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat.
The ox which eats hay, works the entire day.
Kind master, give me hay for all of April.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
Hay smells different to lovers and horses.
A lot of donkeys means a lot of hay.
Strike while the iron is hot. or Make hay while the sun shines.
Is now the right time to bring hay, when the cow is already dead?
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
You cannot hang everything on a single peg.
You cannot hang everything on one nail.
His brains hang at the top of his fez.
His face would hang him.
I poured our own flour and hung our hair-sieve.
We are both queens, so who will hang out the laundry?
The big thieves hang the little ones.
A soldier on furlough lets his shirt hang out of his trousers.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
He who has learned how to steal, must learn how to hang.
The man dying to hang himself can always find a noose.
Let every sheep hang by his own shank.
If you were born to be shot, you'll never be hung.
Before a man learns to hang he is half dead.
Two may lie so as to hang a third.
Every herring must hang by its own gill.
The higher the bell is hung, the shriller it sounds.
Only those who were born to hang are not afraid of the water.
The man of sense does not hang up his knowledge.
Give a dog an ill name, and you may as well hang him.
No one was ever hung for what he was thinking.
Every sheep is hung by his own leg.
To be a hero hang on for a minute longer.
No hang you clothes all pon one nail.
Once grape gathering has finished, you have to hang up the basket.
To hang your sickle on another man's corn.
Abuse doesn't hang on the collar.
Hang a German, even if he is a good man.
Every man should support himself, and not hang upon another.
Give a dog a bad name and hang it.
He came time enough who was hung by candlelight.
All monkeys cannot hang on one branch.
Every sheep is hung by its own leg.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Don't hang your hat where you cant reach it.
Whoever got clothes hang out does look fuh rain.
Don't hang your hat higher than you can reach.
Never hang your hat higher than you can reach.
Don't hang all your clothes on one hook.
Nobody's family can hang out the sign, "Nothing the matter here.
Home is where you hang your hat.
I have sifted my flour and hung up the sieve.
You may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
All keys hang not at one woman's girdle.
Hang the young thief, and the old one will not steal.
He that wants to hang a dog, says that it bites the sheep.
The fire is welcome within, when icicles hang without.
We hang little thieves, and take off our hats to great ones.
The sweetest grapes hang highest.
If you don't want to be hung yourself, blame the dog for stealing the sausage.
If you want to be old, hang yourself when you are young.
You cannot hang a man twice.
Give a man rope enough and he will hang himself.
Take down a thief from the gallows and he will hang you up.
Your health comes first; you can always hang yourself later.
Save a thief from the gallows and he will help to hang you.
All the keys in the land do not hang from one girdle.
Who fails to listen to his elders, will hang his knapsack in the wrong place.
The pardon arrives after the man was hung.
Your health comes first; you can always hang yourself later.
We hang little thieves, and let great ones escape.
Great thieves hang little thieves.
Take down a rogue from the gallows and he will hang you up.
He that would hang his dog, gives out first, that he is mad.
Hang a thief when he's young, and he'll not steal when he's old.
A hammer breaks glass, but also forms steel. Everything cannot be hung on one nail.
If you fall in a river hang on to a snake.
Let every sheep hang by it own foot.
Peralvillo justice: hang a man first and try him afterwards.
If you can't hold on to the horse's mane then don't try to hang on to its tail.
He hath not a farthing left wherewith to buy a rope to hang himself.
Hopes delayed hang the heart upon tenter-hooks.
Over no home can the sign be hung: There is no trouble here.
Don't hang yer basket higher than you can reach 'em.
Give a man enough rope and he'll hang himself.
The unlucky are unlucky even if they hang a lantern on their head.
The first time, forgive; the second time, hang.
Not the place where I was born but where I hang my hat is home.
Never take to sawin' on the branch that's supportin' you-unless you're bein' hung from it.
I tell no, I don't you no but the habit in you prevails. AND the tail of the dog never straightens up even if you hang to it a brick.
He who would hang himself is sure to find a rope.
You cannot hang a man for what he thinks.
Do not talk about a rope in the house of someone whose father was hung.
Great thieves hang the little ones.
More haste, less speed.
Haste makes waste.
Haste is the mother of imperfection.
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.
Haste is good only for catching flies.
Haste is the mother of inaccuracy.
Slowness comes from God and haste from the Devil.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets along the way.
Haste has no blessing.
Haste makes waste and waste makes want.
Patience is the key of joy; but haste is the key to sorrow.
We do in haste what we repent at leisure.
Haste is the enemy of perfection.
God did not create haste.
Of hasty counsel take good heed, for haste is very rarely speed.
Marry in haste repent at leisure.
Nothing is haste but catching flies.
Most haste, worst speed.
He that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.
Haste is from the Devil.
Men fated to be happy need not haste.
Haste bequeaths disappointment.
If you want to catch a black goat you make haste before it's dark.
Haste is the mother of inaccuracy.
Haste makes waste.
Make haste slowly.
Haste is the invention of the devil.
Deceit is in haste, but honesty can wait a fair leisure.
Sickness comes in haste, and goes at leisure.
If the bitch were not in haste, she would not litter blind puppies.
Nothing should be done in haste but gripping a flea.
More haste, less speed.
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.
Hope puts that haste into zour heid.
The devil takes a hand in what is done in haste.
After taking ninety-nine years to climb a stairway, the tortoise falls and says there is a curse on haste.
Haste often causes nasty things.
Haste makes waste.
Great haste breaks the yam tuber.
Make no more haste than good speed.
Haste and speed are rarely good.
The more haste the worse speed.
Make too much haste and pay the penalty.
The bitch in her haste brings forth blind puppies.
There's no haste, when a Russian does not follow you.
One must not confuse speed with haste.
Marry in haste, and repent at leisure.
Haste is not strength.
The more haste, the less speed.
Marry in haste and repent at leisure.
The more haste, the less speed.
Marry in haste and repent at leisure.
He bites his tongue who speaks in haste.
Haste manages all things badly.
Only the man who is not hungry says the coconut has a hard shell.
Hard work is the right hand of fate.
Old habits die hard.
He makes the bed soft, yet it's hard to sleep on.
Mothers-in-law are hard of hearing.
'tis hard to swim against the stream.
It's hard to kill a bad thing.
It's hard to make a choice between two blind dogs.
It's hard to take britches off bare hips.
When a twig grows hard it is difficult to twist it. Every beginning is weak.
Soft water on hard rock, beats so much that it perforates it.
It's hard to please greeks and trojans at the same time.
It is hard for an ex-king to become a night watchman.
It is hard work to be the mother of many pigs.
No matter how hard you try, a bull will never give milk.
He that can reply to an angry man is too hard for him.
Beggars can't be choosers. For a good appetite there is no hard bread.
What's too hard for a man must be worth looking into.
The king inherits a country - the people only hard work.
When the curry is tasty, the rice is hard.
Only when you can be extremely pliable and soft can you be extremely hard and strong.
Whenever I work hard for other people, I always sleep on an empty stomach.
It's hard to know the quality of a person, or a watermelon.
Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight.
What people get by hard work they don't get for their neighbours.
It is easy to dodge a spear that comes in front of you but hard to avoid an arrow shot from behind.
The tongue is soft but constantly remains; the teeth are hard yet they fall out.
We forget even incense in easy times; come hard times, we embrace the buddha's feet.
On earth it's hard and heaven is far away.
Hard heads suffer much.
He that brings good news, knocks hard.
Charity bread has hard crusts.
It is hard to sail over the sea in an egg-shell.
Hard words break no bones.
He that doesn't know his bed is too hard sleeps well.
Tired oxen must tread hard.
The bites of priests and wolves are hard to heal.
Priestly knaves sweat hard at their meat, but never at work get into a heat.
Once is people's mouths, 'tis hard to get well out of them.
Old birds are hard to pluck.
Daughters are easy to rear, but hard to marry.
Every beginning is hard, said the thief, when he began by stealing an anvil.
Hard against hard never was good.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, strike hard.
It is a hard task to comfort the proud.
It's as hard to see a woman crying as it is to see a barefooted duck.
‘Tis as hard to see a woman cry, as a goose go barefoot.
Don't be hard and don't be soft and don't desert your friend for your own share.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand itself alone.
It is hard to hunt the hare out of the bush it is not in.
Without pressing too little or too hard, hold tight the reins for he's a fool who would not get value from a borrowed horse.
What was hard to bear is sweet to remember.
Friends and mules fail us at hard passes.
A girl, a vineyard, an orchard, and a bean-field, are hard to watch.
Don't pull hard enough to break the rope.
Hard with hard doesn't make a good wall.
Life is not a continuum of pleasant choices, but of inevitable problems that call for strength, determination, and hard work.
It's easy to throw something into the river but hard to get it out again.
What was hard to bear is sweet to remember.
A hard beginning maketh a good ending.
Hard upon hard never made a good wall.
Hard is a new law imposed on old licence.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
Love, a cough, and smoke, are hard to hide.
A performing masquerade who tries too hard to outclass his colleagues may expose his anus.
Given counsel is all the same hard to take.
Who works hard will feel no hunger.
Who works hard alone will gobble alone.
No bread is too hard for warm coffee.
It is easy to be a man. It is hard to make oneself human.
His door already has the hard part of the journey behind him.
Friends and mules fail in hard trials.
If tar, hard liquor and sauna do not cure; the disease is fatal.
It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
Old foxes are hard to catch.
It is too late to cry "Hold hard!” when the arrow has left the bow.
He that abideth low cannot fall hard.
He who is outside his door already has the hard part of his journey behind him.
For a good appetite there is no hard bread.
All beginnings are hard, said the thief, and began by stealing an anvil.
It is a hard morsel that chokes.
It is hard to blow with a full mouth.
It is hard to catch hares with unwilling hounds.
It is hard to please every one.
What was hard to endure is sweet to recall.
Who blows his nose too hard makes it bleed.
Easy to say is hard to do.
One may make up a soft bed for somebody, but still it will be hard to sleep in.
Love from someone who is bad is worse than his hatred.
Better a meal of vegetables where there is love than a fatted ox where there is hatred.
There is no medicine to cure hatred.
Hatred renewed is worse than at first.
Forbear a quarrel with a friend to move: anger breeds hatred; concord sweetens love.
A man gains nothing by vain glory but contempt and hatred.
Passion and hatred are children of intoxicating beverages.
Better a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
A hypocrite's hatred is hidden behind flattering words.
A friend's envy is worse than an enemy's hatred.
The love of the wicked is more dangerous than their hatred.
Heaven hath no rage like love to hatred turned, Nor Hell a fury like a woman scorned.
He who sows hatred shall gather rue.
Short is the road that leads from fear to hatred.
Hatred stirreth up strife.
As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, so the deepest love turns to the deadliest hatred.
Candour breeds hatred.
The hatred of knaves is to be preferred to their company.
Discipline is preserved hatred.
Love sees sharply, hatred sees even more sharp, but Jealousy sees the sharpest for it is love and hate at the same time.
Love blinds the eyes to faults, and hatred blinds the eyes to virtues.
Hatred watches while friendship sleeps.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
When life hands you lemons, make lemonade.
Only water in your hands can satisfy your thirst.
Many hands make light work.
Always hold a true friend with both of your hands.
Brothers and sisters are as close as hands and feet.
Active hands, full bellies.
Wriggling hands like young bride's legs.
Empty hands only please their owner.
He who has no spoon will burn his hands.
The fire cannot be put out with your hands.
If a fool borrows a book, cut off his hand; but cut off both hands, of the fool who brings it back.
Every man goes down to his death bearing in his hands only that which he has given away.
A sword in the hands of a drunken slave is less dangerous than science in the hands of the immoral.
He is an old saint, any may leave it in the hands of God.
If it were not for the hands, the clock would be useless.
The hands of a lawyer are always in someone's pocket.
One man's beard is burning, and another warms his hands by it.
Wash your hands in the flowing Ganges.
A country without freedom is like a prisoner with shackled hands.
Hold your children with your heart but teach them with your hands.
Lenin's science strengthens the mind and the hands.
At an ambuscade of villains a man does better with his feet than his hands.
Crawling on hands and knees has never prevented anyone from walking upright.
Clean hands offend no one.
The eye of a master does more work than both his hands.
Hands that give also receive.
Life without endeavor is like entering a jewel-mine and coming out with empty hands.
Not even the five fingers of our hands are alike.
Whosoever eats bread without first washing his hands, it is as though he had sinned with a harlot.
If you want to smear somebody's face with mud, be prepared to dirty your hands.
If a child washes his hands he could eat with kings.
You cannot climb a bid of success with your hands tied up.
Success is a ladder that cannot be climbed with your hands in your pockets.
Cold hands warm heart.
Many hands make light work.
Many hands make quick work.
Princes have long hands and many ears.
There are more hands than heads.
Beginning and ending shake hands.
Cold hands, warm heart.
More is done with words than with hands.
Law is costly; shake hands and be friends.
You can't shake hands with a clenched fist.
If I haven't eaten wheat-bread, I've seen it in people's hands.
Can your hands do what your tongue does?
Women, asses, and nuts, require strong hands.
Long tongue - short hands.
Gloves hide the ugliest hands.
A man who lives on the bank of a river does not use spittle to wash his hands.
Many hands make a workload lighter.
Catch fish two hands.
Catch a tiger with bare hands.
What good is a something big that is still needed to be searched, if there is something small that is in your hands?
They are two hands on one belly.
He that is at sea has not the wind in his hands.
Having two left hands.
Sitting with the hands in the hair.
A great fortune in the hands of a fool is a great misfortune.
Kings have long hands.
Two hands upon the breast, and labour is past.
God comes with leaden feet but strikes with iron hands.
Hands wash each other.
God does not smite with both hands.
His mouth talks about sheik hussein but his hands are stretched up to the tree.
The eye of the master does more than his two hands.
A man who lives on the banks of the Niger should not wash his hands with spittle.
One man's beard is on fire, and another man warms his hands on it.
Indecision is like the stepchild: if he doesn't wash his hands, he is called dirty; if he does, he is wasting the water.
She is as undecided as an orphan: if she does not wash her hands, she will be told that she is a dirty child; if she washes her hands she will be told that she is wasting water.
From the tree of silence hands the fruit of tranquility.
Idle hands are the devil's workshop.
All we can hold in our cold dead hands is what we have given away.
The bush fowl saw the chicken being carved up and laughed. The chicken told the bush fowl to stop laughing. For the same hands now carving up the chicken would be used to carve up the bush fowl.
In the end, the well being of the pono, will be in the hands of the commoner.
Wash your hands often, your feet seldom, and your head never.
If you really love something, your fate is in its hands.
De devil does find work for evil hands to do.
The mouth does not eat if the feet do not walk and the hands work.
Every wise woman builds her house: but the fool plucks it down with her hands.
Too many hands will row the boat up a mountain.
You cannot handle fire with your hands.
If life is fulfilled we go away with empty hands.
A thief has more than two hands.
Flowers leave a part of their fragrance in the hands that bestow them.
You cannot handle fire with your hands.
A man who lives on the banks of the Niger should not wash his hands with spittle.
The monkey is a good boxer, but his hands are short.
The mouth does not eat if the feet do not walk and the hands work.
If you walk with your feet your shoe will get worn, if you walk with your head, your hat.
You can't have two faces under one hat.
Knowing of the hat and the brim.
Not being able to reach it with your hat.
Take off your hat to your yesterdays; take off your coat for your tomorrows.
Throwing the hat at something.
If you are going out for a fight leave your best hat at home.
All hat and no cattle.
To put taghi's hat on naghi's head.
Any man can lose his hat in a fairy – wind.
Friendships are cheap when they can be brought by doffing the hat.
Rather hat in hand than hand in purse.
For every head a hat.
Ston a riva battan nuh know sun hat.
The hat does not make the gentleman nor the cap a lout.
Your head is not only for putting a hat on.
Just toss it in my hat and I'll sort it tomorrow.
Never wear a brown hat in Friesland.
A thief's hat is burning.
Home is where he hangs his hat.
May the man be damned and never grow fat, Who wears two faces under one hat.
Don't hang your hat where you cant reach it.
Never hang your hat higher than you can reach.
When your companions get drunk and fight, Take up your hat, and wish them good night.
The prettiest of shoes makes a sorry hat.
Put one person's hat on another's head.
There's many a good man to be found under a shabby hat.
Many a good face is under a ragged hat.
Home is where you hang your hat.
Take off your hat quickly but slowly take hold of your purse.
Put your hand quickly to your hat, and slowly in your purse, and you will take no harm.
Morgenstund hat Gold im Mund.
Who has a head won't want for a hat.
He that has no head, need no hat.
Petty thieves are hanged, you take off your hat to the big ones.
One man knocks in the nail, and another hangs his hat on it.
He who has a head won't want for a hat.
Everyone greets others with a hat he has got.
A man's hat in his hand, never did him any harm.
A piece of bread in the pocket is better than a feather in the hat.
Make fun of the man, not of his hat.
Be slow to reach for your purse and quick to tip your hat.
When you look to the heights, hold on to your hat.
With your hat in your hand you can travel the entire country.
The hat burns on the head of the thief.
Noth hät kenn Geboot.
Never wear a brown hat in Friesland.
A cowboy never tries on another man's hat, its like gettin' on his hosse.
Not the place where I was born but where I hang my hat is home.
It is time enough to take off your hat when you see the man.
It is difficult to get many heads under one hat.
‘'Der Arme isst wenn er was hat, der Reiche wenn er will.''
E'ening grey and a morning red, put on your hat or ye'll weet your head; e'ening red an' a morning grey is a taiken o' a bonny day.
A thief's hat burns.
Happiness you pay for is to be found everywhere.
Woe is he who claims to have found happiness.
The best part of happiness lies is in the secret heart of a lover.
Happiness flies away from those who want it most.
One man's happiness is another man's sadness.
True happiness lies in giving it to others.
There is no winter without snow, no spring without sunshine, and no happiness without companions.
Kitten's are a child's instrument for happiness.
A man without happiness is either not good or not well.
An inflated idea can burst the bubble of your happiness.
A friend is someone who shares your happiness and your pains.
Happiness rarely keeps company with an empty stomach.
Into the house where joy lives, happiness will gladly come.
A merchants happiness hangs upon chance, winds, and waves.
One moment of intense happiness prolongs life by a thousand years.
Kindness brings happiness.
All happiness is in the mind.
The day of happiness is short.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
True happiness consists in making others happy.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day.
Who cleans up the dirt washes away happiness.
Happiness does not come from happiness itself, but from the journey towards achieving it.
Happiness is a place between too little and too much.
Better an ounce of happiness than a pound of gold.
What makes us discontented with our condition is the absurdly exaggerated idea we have of the happiness of others.
Happiness is like crystal - when it shines the most, it soon cracks.
Happiness itself does not stay -- only moments of happiness do.
Happiness is as good as food.
While we pursue happiness, we flee from contentment.
Happiness is like a field you can harvest every season.
Who ever does not respect confidence will never find happiness in their path.
Happiness requires something to do, something to love and something to hope for.
Where there is laughter happiness likes to be.
Unhappiness can be a bridge to happiness.
Happiness spring - cleans the heart.
To be able to curse once a day improves happiness and lengthens life.
The happiness in your pocket, don't spend it all.
One who knows the limit knows true happiness.
You can never be happy at the expense of the happiness of others.
Happiness is like a perfume, you cannot pour it all on others without allowing a few drops to fall on yourself.
Happiness is not perfected until it is shared.
Too much happiness brings tears in our eyes.
Real happiness is found not in doing the things you like to do, but in liking the things you have to do.
Happiness is a form of courage.
Happiness multiplies as we divide it with others.
There are two kinds of men: those who could be happy and are not, and those who search for happiness and find it not.
Silence is the interpreter of happiness.
Where you are not -- there is happiness.
No one is happier than he who believes in his happiness.
Happiness opens the arms and closes the eyes.
He who plants a garden plants happiness.
Happiness that lasts too long spoils the heart.
A fool dreams of wealth, a wise man, of happiness.
There is no other happiness but peace.
When men are rightly occupied their happiness grows of their work.
Health flows from the happiness of the heart.
God is a father, happiness is a stepfather.
For some of us happiness comes while we sleep.
Happiness is not a horse, you cannot harness it.
We use to live and spill tears, now we live and build happiness.
There is no happiness; there are only moments of happiness.
Spilled wine is a sign of happiness, but break the bed and all will have long faces.
Happiness invites envy.
If being well bearded brings happiness. a he-goat must be happier than any of us.
Obedience is the mother of happiness.
The memory of happiness makes misery woeful.
Wealth does not bring happiness.
Happiness comes happiness leaves.
The best way to find happiness is not to search for it.
He who has not learned to share his blessings with others has not found the true path to enduring happiness.
If you want happiness for an hour, take a nap. If you want happiness for a day, go fishing. If you want happiness for a month, get married. If you want happiness for a year, inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime, help someone else.
Where ambition ends happiness begins.
Simplicity: much happiness is lost in the pursuit of it.
The value of a person is measured by the happiness he gave to others in life.
Happiness requires something to love and something to hope for.
One happiness scatters a thousand sorrows.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap. If you want happiness for a day -- go fishing. If you want happiness for a month -- get married. If you want happiness for a year -- inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime -- help someone else.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap.
Happiness takes no account of time.
Happiness does not give, it only lends.
One man's happiness is another man's sadness.
Happiness consists in the absence of anxiety.
Content is happiness.
Trash is the money compared to happiness.
Wealth rarely brings happiness.
True happiness is places in virtue.
In the planting season visitors come singly, and in harvest time they come in crowds.
Even after a bad harvest there must be sowing.
A harvest of peace grows from seeds of contentment.
Lower your head modestly while passing, and you will harvest bananas.
A man must put grain in the ground before he can cut the harvest.
Without sowing a single wheat you would not harvest thousand ones.
The nicest woman is your own; the nicest harvest is your neighbors.
Pray to God for a good harvest, but keep on hoeing.
If you plant, you harvest.
He who listened to the woman suffered famine at harvest time.
The more help in the cornfield the smaller the harvest.
Without effort no harvest will be abundant.
Feasting is the physician's harvest.
Big men are not the only kind that can reap a harvest.
It is not the big farmers who reap all the harvest.
With fortune on your side you can sow salt and harvest grass.
Better a bad harvest than a bad neighbor.
As you pay the price with the fertilizer, the hoe and pruning determines the harvest of the olives.
What plant, that will harvest.
The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.
He that has a good harvest must be able to endure a few thistles.
Good millet is known at the harvest.
A good harvest does not grow with ease; the more diligent the farmer, the more bountiful the crop.
Good millet is known at the harvest.
Happiness is like a field you can harvest every season.
The best blessing for a good harvest is a pumpkin full of sweat.
Who sows wind will harvest storm.
Do not look where the harvest is plentiful, but where the people are kind.
A bad wife is a poor harvest for sixty years.
A bad wife is one hundred years of bad harvest.
The harvest of a whole year depends on what you sow in the springtime.
You can never sow rice and expect to harvest maize.
Without effort no harvest will be abundant.
Him with a bushy field cannot harvest edibles from it.
Good millet is known at the harvest.
Counsel after action is like rain after harvest.
We must sow even after a bad harvest.
One must glean at harvest time.
A farmer does not boast that he has had a good harvest until his stock of yams lasts till the following harvest season.
A farmer who would not work inside the rain and would not work under the sun, would have nothing to harvest at the end of the farming year.
If the bread in the oven is a failure you lose a week; if the harvest is a failure you lose a year; if marriage is a failure then you lose a life.
Don't harvest grass that you don't recognize.
First harvest honey and wax during the day, then dance and play in the open during the evening.
If you continually harvest without fertilizing the land will soon be exhausted and you'll have bad years.
When the ripened ears are full and fall over, as if in sleep, the farmer awakens, that is to say, he begins the harvest.
Seed well and harvest better.
You're bound to leave some grain when you harvest.
Who seeds wind, shall harvest storm.
He puts his sickle into another man's harvest.
What you plant, that you will harvest.
You harvest what you sow.
Who leaves no traces in the field, will be put to shame at harvest.
Work improves the harvest better than the field itself.
If one does not plow, there will be no harvest.
Judge each day not by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.
What [you] plant, [you] will harvest.
We've abandoned our harvest to pick out hemp seeds.
If you eat all your harvest, you won't have seed for tomorrow.
A bountiful pear harvest means shortages of everything else.
A mother-in-law who farts during the supper foretells a good harvest.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
To be willing is only half the task.
The loveliest of faces are to be seen by moonlight, when one sees half with the eye and half with the fancy.
It's like exchanging six for half a dozen.
A man without a woman is only half a man.
The truth is half a quarrel.
To begin is to be half done.
A smiling face is half the meal.
A good beginning is half the battle.
A single Russian hair outweighs half a Pole.
Grief shared is half grief; joy shared is double joy.
A good beginning is half the work done.
Better half a donkey than half a camel.
A half loaf is better than no bread.
Half bread is better than nothing.
Half of an orange tastes just as sweet as a whole one.
Knowledge without practice makes but half an artist.
As to flowers, when half open; as to sake, when a person is half tipsy.
Teaching is half learning.
When the palm nuts ripen, you carry half and I carry half.
The first half of the night, think of your own faults; the second half, the faults of others.
Being clean is the half of faith.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
A man without a wife is but half a man.
A sin confessed is half forgiven.
Before a man learns to hang he is half dead.
A bold attempt is half success.
A bold onset is half the battle.
A danger foreseen is half avoided.
Half a house is half a hell.
In America half an hour is forty minutes.
A man warned is half saved.
He who stops half way is only half in error.
One half of the world does not know how the other half lives.
A disease known is half cured.
A good beginning is half the work.
The beginning is the half of every action.
The person who is well prepared has already won half of the battle.
A beard lathered is half shaved.
A beard once washed is half shaven.
With art and knavery we live through half the year; with knavery and art we live through the other.
A sin concealed is half forgiven.
Half a brain is enough for him who says little.
A hidden sin is half forgiven.
Cleanliness is half your health.
Joyfulness is half your health.
Doubts mean losing half of one's case beforehand.
Shared joy is a double joy; shared sorrow is half a sorrow.
When you go a fireside an' see food, eat half an' lef' half.
One half our fatherlands is the ocean.
A story is only half told if there is only one side presented.
Believe half what's recounted, the less you believe, the better you'll do.
Shared grief is half grief.
A good start is half the job done.
Half a word to the wise is enough.
Hearsay is half lies.
It is better to ride for half a year on a good horse than to spend your entire life riding on a mule.
The first half of life is spent in longing for the second, the second half in regretting the first.
The devil's meal turns half to bran.
A wise companion is half the journey.
Acknowledgement is half of correction.
Eat until you are half full; drink until you are half drunk.
A beard well lathered is half shaved.
He that has an ill name is half hanged.
A good rest is half the job.
Light is half a companion.
The food is half the provisions, the rest is herring and potatoes.
A thousand cups of wine do not suffice when true friends meet, but half a sentence is too much when there is no meeting of minds.
Drinking with a bosom friend, a thousand shots are too few; Talking with a disagreeable person, half a sentence is too many.
The first blow is half the battle.
A courtesy much entreated is half recompensed.
You can beat a fool half to death but you can't beat the foolishness out of him.
A lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is still putting on its shoes.
A disease known is half cured.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
The king's cheese goes half away in parings.
One half the troubles in this world can be traced to saying ‘yes' too quick or saying ‘no' not soon enough.
Half an orange tastes as sweet as a whole one.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
It takes half your life to learn who your friends are and the other half to keep them.
A half truth is a whole lie.
Well begun is half done.
A half the truth is often a whole lie.
What "they say" is half lies.
A maid who laughs is half taken.
Righteousness is half of religion.
Literal meaning: Give the dough to baker even if he eats half of it.
Shared sorrow is half sorrow.
The bigger a man's head, the worse his headache.
A sore finger and a headache are standard excuses for not going to school.
The lack of gold only a headache.
When you go to bed with a clear head, you will not get up with a headache.
Make no headache of what is not your business.
A crown is no cure for the headache.
A crown's no cure for a headache.
Every head has its own kind of headache.
He who comforts never has a headache.
No diadem can cure a headache.
The headache is mine and the cows are ours.
He who does as he likes has no headache.
A crown is no cure for the headache.
Don't speak my mouth, I shall have no headache.
When you cook a guinea fowl, the partridge gets a headache.
Small children give you headache; big children heartache.
You never get a headache from winning.
To cut off the head is no remedy for the headache.
Much knowledge creates headache.
Mothers-in-law are hard of hearing.
Landing a single punch on your enemy's nose is more satisfying than hearing well-intentioned advice from your elders.
One good punch on your enemy's nose, gives more pleasure than hearing well-meaning advice from your elders.
A healthy ear can stand hearing sick words.
Let the wary stranger who seeks refreshment keep silent with sharpened hearing.
Let us see then tell; hearing is not seeing.
Hearing is not seeing.
Seeing once is better than hearing a hundred times.
In vain is the mill-clock if the miller his hearing lack.
Hearing he hears not. He is deaf to entreaty.
Knowing but not telling it is what kills old men. Hearing but not heeding it is what kills young men.
Wrang hearing makes wrang rehearsing.
Bad hearing is a good helper.
Love truth even if it harms you, and hate lies even if they serve you.
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
You will hate a beautiful song if you sing it often.
Eat the bread of the man you hate and also of him you love.
Love and let the world know, hate in silence.
I curse my son and I hate who says amen.
The one who loves does not hate.
The cow steps on the calf, but she does not hate it.
Don't try to make someone hate the person he loves, for he will still go on loving, but he will hate you.
Hate has no medicine.
Great hate follows great love.
Love conceals ugliness, and hate sees many faults.
I hate fetters though they be of gold.
The wicked even hate vice in others.
Hate not the man, but the weakness.
You hide the fact you hate me; I hide the fact I know.
After honor and state follow envy and hate.
Those who love you will make you weep; those who hate you will make you laugh.
Chastise one that is worthless, and he will presently hate you.
Do not wrong or hate your neighbor for it is not he that you wrong but yourself.
We hate delays by others, but sometimes it makes us wise.
You can hate the dog, but do not tell him that his teeth are dirty.
Live patiently in the world; know that those who hate you are more numerous than those who love you.
If you hate your ancestors then assume your dead than you will love the hereafter.
We hate those who will not take our advice and despise those who do.
Colleges hate geniuses, just as convents hate saints.
Love is one-eyed, hate is blind.
I hate a jovial table companion with a good memory.
We love the treason but hate the traitor.
If you love the boll, you cannot hate branches.
Fear less, hope more,
Whine less, breathe more,
Talk less, say more,
Hate less, love more,
And all good things are yours.
Not to talk is to hate.
A joke driven too far brings home hate.
The greatest hate springs from the greatest love.
Anger and hate hinder good counsel.
Many will hate you if you love yourself.
There is a thin line between love and hate.
Love and hate always exaggerate.
Jealous? Hate the game and not the player.
Jealous Hate the game and not the player.
Better a dinner of herbs than a stalled ox where hate is.
We hate those who will not take our advice and despise those who do.
Hate not at the first harm.
Не that fears you present will hate you absent.
The greatest hate springs from the greatest love.
Envy breeds hate.
Better a dinner of herbs with love than a stalled ox where hate is.
Whom the gods hate, they make pedagogues.
We hate whom we have injured.
This is not Kashan where the heap comes with the coolies.
A fruit tree that grows in a dung heap will certainly blossom.
It takes a heap of licks to strike a nail in the dark.
A little and a little, collected together, becomes a great deal; the heap in the barn consists of single grains, and drop and rop makes an inundation.
Little and often makes a heap in time.
The heap of yams you will reap depends upon the number of mounds you have plowed.
He who boasts of his accomplishments will heap ridicule.
It takes a heap of licks to drive a nail in the dark.
A rotten coconut in a heap spoils the wholesome ones.
Let me tell you about my fate: it is an insult. Let me explain it to you: it is a disgrace.
Were I to tell my neighbour about my fate, he would heap insults upon me.
I looked into the water. My destiny was drifting past. I was born on an ill-fated day.
The curse on the hearth wounds the deepest.
There's no hearth like your own hearth.
God created women and women created the hearth.
One's own hearth is worth gold.
The hearth in our house is warmer than our neighbor's.
Much pressed is he who fain on the hearth would seek for warmth and weal.
You will never find a cat on a cold hearth.
The pot boils best on your own hearth.
It is hard to make a fire on a cold hearth.
One's own hearth is gowd's worth.
What's done in the corner will come to the hearth.
He who has a stepmother has the devil at his hearth.
Own hearth is gold worth.
A hearth of your own is worth gold.
A small fire in the hearth is better than fleas in the bed.
Out of sight,out of hearth.
If you can envision it, You can accomplish it. If you can imagine it, You can reach the heavens.
When an wise man dies, the heavens lament.
The winds of the heavens shift suddenly; so does human fate.
Let justice be done though the heavens fall.
Higher than the heavens.
Should the heavens fall, many pipkins will be broken.
Like Barnard, he tries to catch the heavens stone.
A child's tear rends the heavens.
Now it rains, and again the sun shines forth brightly in the heavens.
No one is tall enough to reach up and touch the heavens. No one is broad enough to lift his gaze over the whole earth. [...] But you, who roar like a storm -- may you establish yourself like a lion. [...] No man can bring about your demise.
If you can't stand the heat get out of the kitchen.
What keeps out the cold keeps out the heat.
It is the one who lies by a fire who feels the heat.
One does not breed a good bitch in her first heat.
He who starts his work early enough is neither hit by the severe sun heat nor the burning sand.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
Priestly knaves sweat hard at their meat, but never at work get into a heat.
One good word quenches more heat than a bucket of water.
If yu cyaa tek di heat, get out a di kitchen.
Coal that does not burn gives little heat.
Who wants heat, must endure the smoke.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
As porridge benefits those who heat and eat it, so does a child benefit those that rear it.
When the heat has passed, you forget about the shade of trees.
A spectator sees more than a player in the heat of a game.
If you heat an empty pot it bursts.
He who does not collect in summer, will heat little in winter.
They must hunger in frost that will not work in heat.
An old oven is easier to heat than a new one.
The moon gives us light but no heat.
To carry his load without resting, not to be bothered by heat or cold and always be content these three things we can learn from a donkey.
Who does not want to work in the heat, will have to starve in the cold.
Beef to the heels like a Mullingar heifer.
Never lay sorrow to your heart when others lay it to their heels.
Trust not a horse's heels.
Stand away from a horse's heels.
Time wounds all heels.
The best way to get someone to stop digging his heels in is to dig out the sand around him.
Make your brain save your heels.
Follow not truth too near the heels lest it dash out your teeth.
Who falls short in the head, must be long in the heels.
Sorrow treads upon the heels of mirth.
Better a fair pair of heels than a halter.
His heart fell down to his heels.
Who falls short in the head must be long in the heels.
A forgetful head makes a weary pair of heels.
Follow not truth too near the heels, lest it dash out thy teeth.
He'll no let grass grow at his heels.
The most friendly fortune trips up your heels.
It is height makes Grantham steeple stand awry.
A tree of your height cannot shade you.
Acorns compare their height with each other.
To enjoy a grander sight, climb to a greater height.
When a palm-branch reaches its height, it gives way for a fresh one to grow.
Who falls from height will suffer a hard blow.
No one ever suddenly reached the height of vice.
When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height.
They that see but your head dinna see your height.
As mills require two stones, so friendship requires two heads.
He has soaked a hundred heads, but hasn't shaved one.
Hard heads suffer much.
The mob has many heads, but no brains. (1732)
A surgeon experiments on the heads of orphans.
There are more hands than heads.
Two heads are better than one or when two, not one.
The buckets take to fighting with the well, and get their heads broken.
Some many heads, so many brains.
As mony heads, as mony wits.
First friends, then broken heads.
When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it.
Two heads cut off and thrown high into the tree have only the winds with which to scheme.
Two heads are better than one.
Wheat stalks heavy with grain learn how to bow their heads.
When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it.
People with wax heads shouldn't walk in the sun.
You must not expect old heads upon young shoulders.
Were I a hatter, men would come into the world without heads.
The public is an animal with many heads.
It is not the nodding of heads that does the rowing.
Many heads, many minds.
A surgeon tries his experiments on the heads of orphans.
Hide their diminished heads.
When there are no trees left, birds will perch on men's heads.
As many heads, as many wits.
It is difficult to get many heads under one hat.
As many heads as many wits.
Those who are carrying elephants home on their heads, need not use their toes to dig up crickets on the way.
'tis easier to hurt than heal.
The doctor must heal his own bald head.
You can't heal stubbornness.
Unbending the bow does not heal the wound.
Visitors' footfalls are like medicine; they heal the sick.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring, a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not.
Heal yourself first before you heal others.
The bites of priests and wolves are hard to heal.
He that would heal a wound must not handle it.
A bad wound may heal, but a bad name will kill.
It will heal well before your wedding.
Will heal before wedding.
Before healing others, heal yourself.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring; a cut may heal but the cut of the tongue does not.
For a rash to heal, you must stop scratching it.
Two barrels of tears will not heal a bruise.
A wound will heal. Talk won't.
The one whose foot you heal kicks you with it.
If you cannot heal the wound, do not tear it open.
Physician, heal thyself.
Hunger is hard in a heal man.
He should have a heal pow, that cals his neighbour nikkynow.
Wounds heal, but not ill words.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
Physician heal thyself.
Heed the troubadour, burn the dinner.
Take heed you find not what you do not seek.
Take heed is a fair thing.
Who has, let him thereof take heed; love wanes, misfortune comes with speed.
Good take heed doth surely speed.
Never heed the colour of a gift horse.
The moon does not heed the baying of dogs.
Of hasty counsel take good heed, for haste is very rarely speed.
Pay no heed to glob flies.
A man will never heed the voice of a woman until it is too late.
A dog you don't feed will never heed your call.
When you go to dance, take heed whom you take by the hand.
Be content and do not heed the goadings of ambitions.
Take heed of enemies reconciled, and of meat twice boiled.
When you go to dance, take heed whom you take by the hand.
Take heed is a good reed.
As both a good horse and a bad horse heed the spur, so both a good woman and a bad woman need the stick.
Take heed of reconciled enemies and of meat twice boiled.
Take heed of an enemy reconciled.
Take heed of an ox before, an ass behind, and a monk on all sides.
Those are wise that heed advice, but no one should heed dissuasive advice.
He is a fool that makes his doctor his heir.
The debts go to the next heir.
Make your son you heir and not your steward.
He is no great heir that inherits not his ancestor's virtues.
A rich man is either a scoundrel or the heir of a scoundrel.
I gave the mouse a hole and she is become my heir.
Let an ill man lie in thy straw, and he looks to be thy heir.
If you wish to die young, make your physician your heir.
He is a fool who makes his physician his heir.
The patient who names a doctor his heir makes a big mistake.
Put a beggar into your barn and he will make himself your heir.
The tears of an heir are laughter under a mask.
A rich man is either a rogue or a rogue's heir.
Winter is summer's heir.
The absent one will not be the heir.
Ill won gear winna enrich the third heir.
Ask help from the spirits after having used all your strength.
Not having enough is like not having anything.
Having drunk the country's water, one should obey the country's laws.
No child was ever born without having been conceived.
Not having all of them in a row.
Having two ears and one tongue, we should listen twice as much as we speak.
Mules make a great fuss about their ancestors having been horses.
They only fall asleep after having mutually taken an oath and then they betray each other.
Setting the conditions before you make an agreement is better than having an argument in the middle of the work.
To have a clear tongue is better than having goods which you can't manage well.
One cannot become a priest just by having a rosary.
Poets know all about famous places without having been there.
Having conquered, tighten the thongs of your helmet.
A river is not contaminated by having a dog drink from it.
Having been bitten by a snake, he's afraid of a rope.
Time flies when you're having fun.
Having is haying, come whence it may.
If you have a roving eye, it's no use having the other one fixed on Heaven.
When a girl is born it is like having six thieves invade the house.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not having given it wings.
No one ever repented of having held his tongue.
It is better not to begin than, having begun, leave unfinished.
If you go to bed hungry, you'll wake up without having slept.
Whoever seeds fava beans without using fertilizer, shouldn't count on having much to eat.
Having something on your liver.
Having two left hands.
Hitherto I gave you credit for having horns.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not giving it wings.
Do not hesitate or you will be left in between doing something, having something and being nothing.
Touching the earth equates to having harmony with nature.
There is not so much comfort in having children as there is sorrow in parting with them.
Being in the right does not depend on having a loud voice.
Bad friends will prevent you from having good friends.
Having a good discussion is like having riches.
Having little knowledge is like having your hands tied around your neck like a slave.
Having beauty doesn't mean understanding the perseverance of marriage.
Having a goal is just a dream with a deadline.
Wealth consists not of having great possessions but of having few wants.
Having finished the meal, the company leaves.
When a blind man dies, he is praised as having beautiful eyes.
To sin in secret is more pleasant than having pleasure in the open.
What is marriage, mother? "Child, it is spinning, having children, making money, and weeping.
Having need of makes the ugly beautiful.
One cannot sit in two saddles having one arse/bottom only.
Gnawing on bones is for dogs having teeth.
Being serious and having a good time thrive together.
From saving comes having.
Having health without wealth is being half sick.
Having a priest in the house is paradise on earth.
Having rain clouds is not the same as having rain..
To be slim does not mean having been pared.
A summer's sun is worth the having.
There's nothing like having the key of the fields.
Having a good wife and rich cabbage soup, seek not other things.
Real wealth consists not in having, but in not wanting.
Meaning: Having done something wrong for the first time, you are afraid/do not want to do it again.
Ran like having the bottom of the belly full of feet.
Runs like having the head as the third foot.
Is like having changed three times into an ape and lost every time.
Hurries like having fire under the tail.
The wolf is beaten not for being grey, but for having eaten a sheep.
Having come to the dance you will dance.
You can't tell the cost of food and fuel without being the head of a household; you can't appreciate the love of your parents without having children of your own.
Wealth consists not of having great possessions but of having few wants.
The person who is rich is none the worse for being dull in accomplishments and in understanding, for being stammering in speech, or for having but one foot or one hand.
What should prevent the herring bag from having the odour of the herrings?
Instead of having a handful of gold, it [could be better] to have a handful of earth (i.e. a piece of land).
Begin in other people's way so as to end by having your own way.
Having achieved your purpose, seek not to undo what has been done.
He is a fool who spares the children after having killed the father.
God gives to us according to the measure of our hearts.
Cold hearts can find warm words.
Faces of men we see but not their hearts.
Hearts do not meet one another like roads.
We are all wanderers on this earth. Our hearts are full of wonder, and our souls are deep with dreams.
Gifts break rocks and melt hearts.
Kind hearts are better than fair faces.
The deep sea can be fathomed, but who knows the hearts of men?
There is a doorway that connects two hearts.
Do good to people in order to enslave their hearts.
God is closest to those with broken hearts.
Heavy purses and light hearts can sustain much.
Great men have big hearts.
Do not speak of evil for it creates curiosity in the hearts of the young.
They are not dead who live in the hearts they leave behind.
To watch us dance is to hear our hearts speak.
Work hard, keep the ceremonies, live peaceably, and unite your hearts.
We speak them fairest when thoughts are falsest and wile the wisest of hearts.
Your lord is the lord of hearts.
Faint hearts never win fair ladies.
At court there are many hands, but few hearts.
Necessity unites hearts.
Changing of works is lighting of hearts.
Changes o' wark is a lightening o' hearts.
Vices creep into our hearts under the name of virtue.
The god of the river ordeal will admire the hearts of those who bear words of truth.
When we understand deeply in out hearts, we will fear and love.
To watch us dance is to hear our hearts speak.
Cowboys don't walk round calling themselves cowboys.
Cowboys don't go around breaking hearts.
The vicious, notwithstanding the sweetness of their words, and the honey on their tongues, have a whole storehouse of poison in their hearts.
The hearts of fools are in their mouths but the mouths of the wise are in their hearts.
When one is helping another, both gain in strength.
There is no point in offering a helping hand to someone who wants to drown.
Advising is easier than helping.
Preventing someone from falling is better than helping him get up.
The best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm.
If you ever need a helping hand you'll find one at the end of your arm.
People helping one another can bring an elephant into the house.
Men will not be fortunate without a helping hand from misfortune.
Let's live helping each other in this world.
Three, helping one another, bear the burden of six.
God likes help when helping people.
There is no helping him who will not be advised.
Three men helping one another will do as much as six men singly.
The brain is not in the pocket, but in the head.
The bigger a man's head, the worse his headache.
The head of a dragon, the tail of a snake.
A sharp tongue will cut off its own head.
If the heart is right, the head cannot be very far wrong.
Either chest in crosses, or a head in bushes.
The tongue speaks, but the head doesn't know.
Men have three ears: one on the left of the head, one on the right of the head, and one in the heart.
If an eel is with fish, he shows his tail; if he is with snakes, he shows his head.
It is better to be the head of a mouse, then the tail of a lion.
If you don't sell your head, no one will buy it.
For no man could be blessed without the acceptance of his own head.
If something that was going to chop off your head only knocked off your cap, you should be grateful.
You cannot shave a man's head in his absence.
Intelligence is in the head, not in the age.
A still tongue makes a wise head.
A pain in the foot is soon forgotten -- a pain in the head is not.
Better to be an ant's head than a lion's tail.
A hair on the head is worth two on the brush.
A closed mouth–a wise head.
Youth has a small head.
The water has passed his head.
The doctor must heal his own bald head.
If you walk with your feet your shoe will get worn, if you walk with your head, your hat.
The blind man is laughing at the bald head.
The mud that you throw will fall on your own head.
You can't put an old head on young shoulders.
He has a head, and so has a pin.
Pull someone by the ears and his head will follow.
Where the devil cannot put his head he puts his tail.
To protest and knock one's head against the wall is what everybody can do.
Man is the head and woman is the crown upon it.
Words in mouth, no load upon head.
Wherever the head goes, the tail will follow.
He that has a tongue in his head may find his way anywhere.
Bread is the head of everything.
A kopeck saves the rouble, and the rouble guards your head.
If Moscow is the heart of Russia and St. Petersburg is its head, then Kiev is its mother.
You cannot jump higher than your head.
Every head is a world.
Nobody lives in another person's head.
When you chop off a snake's head all you are left with is a piece of rope.
A person with a wound on his head keeps touching it.
Knowledge is in the head, not the copybook.
The dreaming man makes excuses for his inaction and places a fools cap on his head.
When the fish gets rotten, it all starts from the head.
Nobody will cut a head off except the one who put it on.
When a single hair has fallen from your head, you are not yet bald.
The elephant's head is no load for a child.
When the shooting starts climb on your camel and head for the mountaintops.
Do not put a grass turban on my head.
The nail that sticks its head up is the one that gets hit.
Cover your head, and not cover your bottom.
When water goes over your head, what difference if it's one fathom or a hundred fathoms.
He hasn't time even to scratch his head.
He saved his ears, but lost his head.
If you keep your head and heart going in the right direction you don't have to worry about your feet.
Every head must do its own thinking.
You cannot expect me to carry you on my back and then you say my head smells.
It is no time to stoop when the head is off.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
To put taghi's hat on naghi's head.
When the head aches, all the limbs ache.
Yorkshire born and Yorkshire bred, strong in the arm and weak in the head.
Too much bed makes a dull head.
A woman strong in flounces is weak in the head.
Man without woman, is head without body; woman without man, is body without head.
Who lets another sit on his shoulder, will soon have him on his head.
You can't put a wide head on young shoulders.
A wise head keeps a shut mouth.
To be red-haired is better than to be without a head.
Nodding the head does not row the boat.
Good care takes the head off bad luck.
A quiet tongue shows a wise head.
The apple falls on the head that's under it.
When you go to bed with a clear head, you will not get up with a headache.
Don't be afraid of he who's loud and noisy, be afraid of he who's head is down.
Don't be a baker if your head is made of butter.
Each head its sentence.
Each head, a different judgement.
I gave him a staff for his support and he uses it to break my head.
The nose didn't smell the rotting head.
He who scrubs the head of an ass wastes his soap.
No comforter's head ever aches.
A thing done has a head.
Better be the head of a cat than the tail of a lion.
Better be the head of a lizard than the tail of a dragon.
Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head.
Trumpet in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cocks; bleat in a flock of goats.
You think you've lost your horse? who knows, he may bring a whole herd back to you someday.
The malicious cow disturbs the whole herd.
An old man doesn't know what makes him herd again.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cockerels; bleat in a flock of goats.
Always drink up stream from the herd.
If you're ridin' ahead of the herd, take a look back every now and then to make sure it's still there.
Where there is a herd without a bull, a castrated ox will rule.
It is a fine thing to command, though it be only a herd of cattle.
While there's nothing to do in April, let out the herd to pasture with all the sheep.
Even a mangy camel will carry more that a herd of asses.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
A bad sheep puts the herd to waste.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants.
The shepherd of a herd of toads must be very patient with his rod.
A lamb [sheep] away from the herd will be devoured by wolves.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
No hero without a wound.
It's better to fly and stay alive than to die a hero.
The real hero doesn't say that he is one.
No man is a hero to his valet.
A hero only appears once the tiger is dead.
The hero appears only when the tiger is dead.
Blood is the sweat of heroes.
A hero is a man who is afraid to run away.
Without eating and drinking the hero is no good.
To be a hero hang on for a minute longer.
The greatest hero is one who has control over his desires.
An endless war shames even a hero.
No man is a hero to his debtors.
An elephant that kills a rat cannot be considered a hero.
Love has produced some heroes but many idiots too.
It's better to flee and stay alive than to die and become a hero.
The soldiers fight, and the kings are heroes.
No man is a hero in the eyes of his valet.
Sing your death song and die like a hero going home.
Love has produced some heroes but even more idiots.
Where the hedge is low every one will cross it.
Love your neighbor, yet pull not down your hedge.
A man that will fight will find a cudgel in every hedge.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
Where the hedge is lowest, the devil leaps over.
Between neighbors' gardens a hedge is not amiss.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
Neighbor once over the hedge, neighbor over it again.
Love thy neighbour, but pull not down thy hedge.
Where the hedge is lowest men jump over.
The way of a slothful man is as a hedge of thorns.
It is good sheltering under an old hedge.
One man may steal a horse while another may not look over the hedge.
Don't cry hurra! till your are over the hedge (till you are out of the wood).
There the hedge is lowest, men leap over.
One briar does not make a hedge.
The sun does not shine on both sides of the hedge at once.
Men leap over where the hedge is lowest.
Men leap over where the hedge is lower.
One may better steal a horse than another look over the hedge.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
Do not tell your secrets behind a wall or a hedge.
Ae man may steal a horse where another daurna look ower the hedge.
Love your neighbour, yet don't pull down your hedge.
He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has every thing.
Early sleep and early wake up, gives health and makes you grow.
May your clothes rip and wear out, but may you live on in good health and fulfillment.
If you see a man riding a wooden stick, say to him "Good health to your horse".
If you see him riding on a bamboo-cane, say to him, "Good health to your horse!"
Cheerfulness is the very flower of health.
The first step to health is to know that we are sick.
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
When wealth is lost, nothing is lost; when health is lost, something is lost; when character is lost, all is lost!
The person who enjoys good health is rich, even if he doesn't know it.
He who enjoys good health is rich, though he knows it not.
Health without money is a half-malady.
The priest's friend loses his faith, the doctor's his health, and the lawyer's his fortune.
Cleanliness is half your health.
Joyfulness is half your health.
The flavour of health is given by an illness.
Good health is the sister of beauty.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools.
A good wife and health are a man's best wealth.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too bus to take care of his tools.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
It is easy for a man in health to preach patience to the sick.
We are usually the best men when in the worst health.
Health and gaiety foster beauty.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools.
Health is better than wealth.
One day in perfect health is a lot.
The rich have medicines the poor have health.
The beginning of health is sleep.
The First glass is for health, the second - for joy, the third - for fun, the fourth - for madness.
Sleep is half of health.
Five minutes of health comfort the ill one.
Your health comes first; you can always hang yourself later.
What you give for the cause of charity in health is gold; what you give in sickness is silver; what you give after death is lead.
Work is half of health.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a farmer too lazy to plant his field.
During sickness, you recognize the value of good health.
Having health without wealth is being half sick.
Justice and health, woe to the one who seeks them.
Health flows from the happiness of the heart.
Your health comes first; you can always hang yourself later.
Health comes before making a livelihood.
The fear of women is the basis of good health.
If you would live in health, grow old early.
The beginning of health is to know the disease.
Fond of lawsuits, little wealth; fond of doctors, little health; fond of friars, little honour.
When in good health we easily give good advice to the sick.
Eat well, drink in moderation, and sleep sound, in these three good health abound.
Good health and good sense are two great blessings.
Early rising is most conducive to health.
Health is wealth.
Gude health is better than wealth.
One cup (of liquor) is for health, second one is for fun, third one is for nothing.
Joyfulness is half your health.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
Good health is above wealth.
He is young enough who has health, and he is rich enough who has no debts.
Here's health to your enemies' enemies!
No time for your health today, no health for your time tomorrow.
It is not good for all our wishes to be filled; through sickness we recognize the value of health; through evil, the value of good; through hunger, the value of food; through exertion, the value of rest.
Health? Very nice! But where will we get potatoes?
Health is better than wealth.
Hygiene is two thirds of health.
He who is master of his thirst is master of his health.
She is a sairy mouse, that hes but one Hole.
Every land hes his lauch, and every corne hes the caff.
Need hes no law.
He that hes twa huirds, is able to get the third.
The day hes eyne, the night hes ears.
Every man can rule an ill wife, but he that hes Her.
He sits full still that hes a riven brick.
He that spends his geir on a whore, hes both shame and skaith.
Love hes no lack.
A good Goose indeed, but she hes an ill gansell.
Quhiles the hawk hes, and whiles he hunger hes.
They are good willy of their Horse that hes none.
He that hes gold may buy land.
Herring in the land, the doctor at a stand.
Every herring must hang by its own gill.
He couldn't drag a herring off the coals.
When herring mauger him bone show.
The food is half the provisions, the rest is herring and potatoes.
Neither fish, flesh nor good red herring.
Let ilka herring hing by its ain head.
It is kindly that the poke fair of the Herring.
Norwegian herring and Finnish lads, those are seen at every harbour.
What should prevent the herring bag from having the odour of the herrings?
It's but kindly that the pock savour of the herring.
Don't cough in a hiding place.
If you are in hiding, don't light a fire.
He who laughs too much, is hiding his grief.
Little snakes need to grow in hiding.
Discretion is a way of hiding what you cannot help.
Hunger makes the big fish come out of hiding in the great river.
There is no hiding place on the water surface.
It's by following his friends that a crab lost its hiding place.
Where profit is, loss is hiding nearby.
It is no use hiding from a friend what is known to an enemy.
Nowhere are there more hiding places than in the heart.
There are more whores in hiding than there are public ones.
Language has been given to man for hiding thoughts.
If you are in hiding, don't light a fire.
He that buildeth upon the highway hath many advisers.
Grass grows not upon the highway.
Who arrays himself in other men's garments is stripped on the highway.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
My uncle is sick, but the highway is green.
Those who argue with each other on the highway will often make up in the lane.
He who sows peas on the highway does not get all the pods into his barn.
Gold lies deep in the mountain, dirt on the highway.
Travel the highway, though it be roundabout – where shortcuts are dangerous.
He that leaves the highway to cut short, commonly goes about.
The bocor gives you a protective charm, but he doesn't tell you to sleep in the middle of the highway.
A little, contemptible path is sometimes the one that leads you to the highway.
The highway is always shorter than the unknown side roads.
What children hear their parents say by the fireside, they repeat in the highway.
He who dresses ion others' clothes will be undressed on the highway.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
If the rich could hire the poor to die for them, the poor would make a very nice living.
The workman is worthy of his hire.
Talking is cheap until you hire a lawyer to do it for you.
He that performs his own errand, saves his messanger's hire.
Every laborer is worthy of his hire.
If the rich could hire someone else to die for them, the poor would make a wonderful living. .
Hire staff but do it yourself.
The wolf will hire himself out very cheaply as a shepherd.
The laborer is worthy of his hire.
The labourer is worthy of his hire.
Praise is the hire of virtue.
If you can't help, don't hinder.
He who cannot help, may hinder.
One flea does not hinder sleep.
Charity does not lessen you, going to church does not hinder you.
Alms do not decrease, going to church does not hinder.
Quhom God will help, no man can hinder.
A branch of ‘mutundu' does not hinder the division of a field.
One must needs like what one cannot hinder.
Anger and hate hinder good counsel.
A mirror does not reflect a broken heart.
Fire in the heart sends smoke into the head.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth and the mouth of the wise man is in his heart.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
The heart that loves is always young.
Sympathy is a little medicine to soothe the ache in another's heart.
A person's heart is in his feet.
If the hand gives, but the heart does not, nothing happens.
Dreams are wishes your heart makes.
An arrow can be pulled out of a wound, but a hurtful word stays forever in your heart.
Cultivate a heart of love that knows no danger.
If the heart is right, the head cannot be very far wrong.
Faint heart ne'er won fair lady.
Out of sight, out of heart.
Men have three ears: one on the left of the head, one on the right of the head, and one in the heart.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
The teeth are smiling, but is the heart?
A tear in the eye is a wound in the heart.
The best part of happiness lies is in the secret heart of a lover.
When you've heard it you must see it; when you've seen it make a judgement with your heart.
Thought breaks the heart.
Home is where the heart is.
"with all my heart!” says the boor, when he must.
The light heart lives long.
Live in my heart and pay no rent.
Everything troubles you and the cat breaks your heart.
That which is nearest a woman's heart is the first to come out.
If you would live long, open your heart.
A lion lurks in everyone's heart; awake him not.
Whatever is in the heart will come up to the tongue.
The lover who gives you her body but not her heart is generous with thornless roses.
He whose heart is aroused by love will never die.
What the eyes don't see the heart doesn't feel.
The heart at rest sees a feast in everything.
Gratitude is the memory of the heart.
Where there is least heart there is most tongue.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant.
As he thinks in his heart, so he is.
Aim high in your career but stay humble in your heart.
What the heart thinks, the tongue speaks.
The mouth prays to Buddha, but the heart is full of evil.
A man's heart is not a sack open to all.
Away from the eye, out of the heart.
He who cannot work out his salvation by heart will not do it by book.
If Moscow is the heart of Russia and St. Petersburg is its head, then Kiev is its mother.
When you meet a man judge him by his clothes, when you leave a man judge him by his heart.
A heart in love with beauty never grows old.
What reaches the mother's heart will only reach the father's knees.
Ask questions from your heart and you will be answered from the heart.
Who has not done any evil act, his or her heart may be found right.
The heart of a servant that is not beaten is full of curses.
Put a stout heart to a stey brae.
Rather a piece of bread with a happy heart than wealth with grief.
Put a stout heart to a steep hill.
Shining I inside, let him guide my heart.
That which is said in your heart, let it be realized by springing up spontaneously.
Whoever lets himself be led by the heart will never lose his way.
For news of the heart, ask the face.
For news of the heart, ask the face.
You can measure the depth of the sea but what about a man's heart?
A crucible for silver and a furnace for gold, but Allah tests the heart.
The world of humans is divided by lines, but the mind knows no limits, the heart no barriers.
In his heart a man may plan his course but God determines his every step.
Reading books removes sorrows from the heart.
The heart is a tree; it grows where it wants.
When the eyes see nothing, the heart feels nothing.
The heart is not a knee that can be bent.
The heart rules without rules.
There is no blindness but the blindness of the heart.
A stolen object brings no joy to one's heart.
Gifts is the key to the female heart.
The eye never forgets what the heart has seen.
Not a long day, but a good heart, rids work.
It is better for the eyes to die than the heart.
It is better to lose your eyes than to lose your heart.
Charity is the matter of the heart not of the pocket.
A woman's heart and spring weather.
The human heart is neither of stone nor wood.
A man's heart and the autumnal sky.
A man's heart changes as often as does the autumn sky.
A proposal without patience breaks its own heart.
Every little yielding to anxiety is a step away from the natural heart of man.
The bandits in the mountain are easily subjected, but it is difficult to subject the bandits in my heart.
The human heart is never satisfied, just like the snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
Where the heart would go, there follows the foot.
There is a way from heart to heart.
A wanton eye is the messenger of a lusting heart.
A broken hand can work but a broken heart can't.
History is constantly teaching, but it does not find many pupils.
Happy nations have no history.
Every time history repeats itself the price goes up.
Happy is the country which has no history.
Walk in the valley of our ancestors, learn of the history, and marvel at the beauty.
"History is the teacher of life.”.
Live today for tomorrow it will all be history.
History never repeats itself, but it does rhyme.
Every day of your life is a page of your history.
Proverbs are the library of history.
Without History, No Life.
The responsibility of power is like holding an egg. Grasp it too tightly and it will drip through your fingers; hold it too loosely and it will drop and break.
Putting out a fire while holding firewood.
When the hunter returns and is holding mushrooms, don't ask him about how his hunt went.
He who holds somebody on the ground is holding himself too.
A woman who runs holding her breast has got nothing pursuing her.
Life is not holding a good hand; Life is playing a poor hand well.
With someone holding nothing but trumps it is impossible to play cards.
It is easy to go on foot if you are holding your horse by the rein.
Speak with a true heart, holding back your evil passions.
When a stone hits glass, the glass breaks. When glass hits a stone, the glass breaks.
A tree never hits an automobile except in self-defense.
He who shoots often, hits at last.
Not every ball hits.
He who thinks badly commits a sin but hits the mark.
The closer a relation, the more it hits home.
It hits like a grip on a pig.
If someone hits you with a stone, hit him with bread; your bread will return to you and his stone will return to him.
He who who flings a stone amid a crowd, does not know the it hits.
Often shooting hits the mark.
When a stone hits glass, the glass breaks.
He hits the nail on the head.
The whip hits at the legs, not the guilt.
Don't be foolish! because foolishness hits the mark and cursing doesn't.
That dog yelps, which stick hits.
He must shoot well who always hits the mark.
If you do not strike back at him who hits you, there is no way for him to find out whether you also have hands.
Roses grow where a teacher hits.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days - then on the third day give him a hoe.
As you pay the price with the fertilizer, the hoe and pruning determines the harvest of the olives.
When there is on a red-hot hoe, it is not grasped.
There's no bread without hoe.
When there is on a red-hot hoe, it is not grasped.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: I climb a tree without arms.
When brothers quarrel, take a hoe and go and dig; and when they make it up, take a basket and patter the crop.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days; on the third day, give him a hoe.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: climb a tree without arms.
Dig the hoe in well in the vineyard and pull out the bad growth and the weed.
Use your time as best you can, keeping the hoe and oxen ready.
Whoever wants a good must should hoe the vineyard in August.
Rain and the hoe make onions.
A hoe made small from loving work came to visit and together we cultivated our relationship. When united everything is possible.
When a stone is identified it cannot destroy a hoe.
Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth.
The whole hog or none.
Look for the hog at the oak.
Alligator shouldn' call hog long mout.
Hog say, di fus water im cetch, i'm walla.
Hog run fe him life, darg run fe him character.
Noh care how boar hog try fi hide under sheep wool, ‘im grunt always betray ‘im.
Easily grasped are the crimes of a hog.
A bespattered hog tries to bespatter another.
Greedy greedy, give the hog some. Why, the hog does wuk?
A sow may find an acorn as well as a hog.
The worst hog often gets the best pear.
It is hard to break a hog of an ill custom.
A hog in armor is still a hog.
I don't count them to you, wife, but a hog makes twelve puddings.
What can you expect from a hog but a grunt?
When the rain falls in the valley, the hill gets angry.
Put a stout heart to a steep hill.
An ant's nest could bring down a hill.
Bit by bit, in the end it becomes a hill.
Do on the hill as you would do in the hall.
He who has cattle on the hill will not sleep easy.
Every hill has its valley.
He that comes first to the hill, may sit where he will.
The stone in the water does not know how hot the hill is, parched by the sun.
No hill without gravestones, no valley without shadows.
A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in.
Every cock is proud on his own dung hill.
You cannot force water up a hill.
It is easier to transport a termite hill than have authority in a village.
It is easier to transport an ant hill than exercise authority in a village.
Every hill has its leopard.
Virtue: climbing a hill; vice: running down.
Always a valley before a hill.
Act in the valley so that you need not fear those who stand on the hill.
When falkland hill puts on his cap, the howe o' fife will get a drap, and when the bishop draws his cowl, look out for wind and weather fowl.
He that stays in the valley will not get over the hill.
He who inherits a hill must climb it.
Every hill has its leopard.
If the hill will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet will go to the hill. (Francis Bacon)
Through thick and thin, both over Hill and Plain.
He that comes first to the hill may sit where he will.
Do in Hill, as ye wald do in Hall.
While they are in the valley he treats her as his wife, while on the hill he treats her as his sister.
What reaches the top of the hill cannot be called back.
No matter how fast the poplar grows, it will never reach heaven.
I own a cow in heaven, but I cannot drink her milk.
When the thief has stolen from a thief, God laughs in heaven.
If a woman hears that something unusual is going on in heaven, she would find a ladder to go and look.
The road to Heaven is well signposted, but it is badly lit at night.
A child is a bridge to heaven.
Heaven is at the feet of mothers.
Alas for the son whose father went to heaven.
At the bottom of patience is heaven.
He who gives alms to the poor faces heaven.
Don't put your trust in Fortune until you are in heaven.
Continue to do good, and heaven will come down to you.
In heaven you wont hear the mosquitoes.
The devil goes away and heaven comes to stay.
There's nobody can prevent you getting into heaven, but there are many always ready to give you a shove into hell.
There is nothing hidden between heaven and earth.
Crosses are ladders which lead to heaven.
With gold you can make a road to heaven but it will end in hell.
At the bottom of patience one finds heaven.
Only heaven can see the back of a sparrow.
If God were not forgiving, heaven would be empty.
A mind can make a heaven out of hell, or a hell out of heaven.
A single prayer moves heaven.
If heaven above lets fall a plum, open your mouth.
Earth belongs to the brave but heaven to those who deserve it.
Heaven is dark and yet out of it streams clear water.
On earth it's hard and heaven is far away.
Your aspirations are in heaven, but your brains are in your feet.
Even the hen looks toward heaven when she drinks.
Hell is full of good meanings, but heaven is full of good works.
The wicked work harder to preach hell than the righteous do to get to heaven.
Poor men go to heaven as soon as rich.
It is harder work getting to hell than to heaven.
Marriage is heaven and hell.
If you have a roving eye, it's no use having the other one fixed on Heaven.
May your neighbors respect you, Trouble neglect you, The angels protect you, And heaven accept you.
There is not a tree in Heaven that is higher than the tree of patience.
A donkey's cries don't reach heaven.
The grunts of pigs never make it to heaven.
You will see something as surely as a pig will see heaven.
There's no getting to heaven in a coach.
He who is in hell knows not what heaven is.
You don't go to heaven in a carriage.
He who looks only at heaven may easily break his nose on earth.
The distance between heaven and earth is no greater than one thought.
One road leads to heaven but many lead to hell.
You can't buy heaven with money.
A woman can raise you to heaven and can dump you in hell.
Don't trust in fortune until you are in heaven.
The stars are the eyes of heaven.
Men go not laughing to heaven.
Heaven preserve me from my friends.
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
To heaven for the music but to hell for a good conversation.
Seven versts# to heaven, and all the way through the forest.
No one is dragged to heaven by the hair.
Freedom for the free and heaven for the saved.
If rubles fell from heaven the poor would have no bag.
Better rule in hell, than serve in heaven.
Mother earth promised to tell her secrets to heaven.
Marriage and shroud, from heaven will come.
Regard Heaven as your father, Earth as your Mother and all things as your Brothers and Sisters.
The first thing one should own is a home; and it is the last thing one should sell; for a home is ones tomb this side of heaven.
Meet on the stairs and you won't meet in heaven.
The dead in heaven is too happy to grieve for indignities to his corpse; the dead in hell has too much else to grieve for.
You can see heaven through the eye of the needle.
Our fates are as registered by heaven.
Looking up we are not ashamed in the presence of heaven, nor bowing down are we ashamed in the presence of earth.
Approach heaven with a single stride.
Because men do not like the cold, Heaven does not cause winter to cease.
Books speak to the mind, friends to the heart, heaven to the soul, all else to the ears.
The net of heaven is large and wide, but it lets nothing through.
The evil is dreaded by men but not heaven; the kind-hearted is cheated by mortals but not God.
He who sees heaven in the water sees the fishes in the trees.
Heaven lent you a soul Earth will lend a grave.
If heaven made him, earth can find some use for him.
Men see only the present; heaven sees the future.
If heaven drops you a date, it must be received with an open mouth.
Great wealth is a gift from heaven; moderate wealth results from frugality.
One more good man on earth is better than an extra angel in heaven.
Heaven has a road, but no one travels it; Hell has no gate but men will dig to get there.
Great blessings come from Heaven; small blessings come from man.
If a man becomes powerful even his chicken and his dog go to heaven.
For each man produced by heaven, earth provides a grave.
Heaven and earth shall never meet.
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
Crosses are the ladders to heaven.
Earth has no sorrow that heaven cannot heal.
There is no one who became rich because he broke a holiday, and no one who gained weight because he broke a fast.
The mouth of a woman takes no holiday.
Preparing for the holiday is neither enlightening nor lasting.
Don't join in the celebration or holiday if you feel disgruntled.
Every day is not a holiday.
Envy takes no holiday.
Money is only good for a weekday, a holiday, and a rainy day.
Envy never has a holiday.
There'll be a holiday in our street too.
In a quarrel, the higher voiced person will win.
To every high mountain, there is a higher one.
You cannot jump higher than your head.
Higher duties mean greater responsibilities.
The higher the bell is hung, the shriller it sounds.
The higher the monkey goes the more he shows his tail.
There is not a tree in Heaven that is higher than the tree of patience.
De higher monkey climb de more him expose.
The higher the monkey climbs the more him expose.
The higher the bamboo, the more it can be bent.
If the mare jumps, the filly will jump higher.
The higher the mountain the lower the valley, the taller the tree the harder the fall.
The sheep on the mountain is higher than the bull on the plain.
Ears do not grow higher than the head.
The flimsier the product, the higher the price.
De higher de monkey climb, de more he does show he tail.
Don't hang your hat higher than you can reach.
Never hang your hat higher than you can reach.
The goodness of the father reaches higher than a mountain; that of the mother goes deeper than the ocean.
You won't help the new plants grow by pulling them up higher.
You won't help shoots grow by pulling them up higher.
The harder you fall, the higher you bounce.
The higher you climb, the harder you may fall.
A farmer on his knees is higher than a gentleman on his legs.
Higher than the heavens.
The higher a monkey climbs, the more he shows his behind.
Don't let your sorrow come higher than your knees.
The higher the rise the greater the fall.
Don't let your sorrow come higher than your knees.
The higher up, the greater fall.
Always ask a higher price, because you can always lower it.
Even an eagle will not fly higher than the sun.
Don't hang yer basket higher than you can reach 'em.
The higher the ape climbs the more he shows his rump.
A camel can tolerate a heavy load, but not a crooked rope.
In the end a needle weighs heavy.
The immature rice stalk stands erect, while the mature stalk, heavy with grain, bends over.
Take together, it will not be heavy.
Laziness is a heavy burden.
Borrowed bread lies heavy on the stomach.
Everyone thinks his own burden is heavy.
If you take it together, it will not be heavy.
Her horns are too heavy for the cow.
Breasts are never too heavy for the chest.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
An elephant's tasks are never too heavy for it.
Pears and women are the sweetest in the parts that are heaviest.
Life is a long journey with a heavy bag on its back.
The heaviest rains fall on the house that leaks most.
If you are not so strong, don't carry heavy burdens.
The hand of the stranger is heavy.
A heavy load should be borne together as well as a light load.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
A hen is heavy when carried far.
A heavy heart seldom combs a gray beard.
Everyone thinks his own cross is heaviest.
A heavy shower is soon over.
The taller the house, the heavier the storm.
Of all weights, old age is the heaviest.
A friendly word is better than a heavy cake.
Skill is not a heavy load to carry.
Let lie what is too heavy to lift.
Heavy purses and light hearts can sustain much.
Light gains make a heavy purse.
Nothing is such a heavy burden as a secret is.
Do you carry the trough, husband, and I will carry the sieve, which is as heavy as the devil.
An empty knapsack is heavier to carry than a full one.
The hanging fruit is never too heavy for the creeper to bear.
A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
Duty is heavy as a mountain but
Death is lighter than a feather.
Wheat stalks heavy with grain learn how to bow their heads.
The door to virtue is heavy and hard to open.
The horns cannot be too heavy for the cow that bears them.
Even drumsticks are heavy on the way home after the dance.
A small debt makes a debtor, a heavy one an enemy.
Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge.
The heaviest baggage for a traveler is an empty wallet.
A hen is heavy when carried far.
It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate.
The fairer the hostess, the heavier the reckoning.
The heaviest baggage for a traveller is an empty purse.
A light belly, heavy heart.
A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear.
On a long journey even a straw is heavy.
The truth is a heavy burden that few care to carry.
Small winning makes a heavy purse.
Light winning makes a heavy purse.
If the load is too heavy for someone to carry, one would be better off to give the load to the ground to carry.
Heavy is an old man's fall.
Raindrops come heavy on a house unthatched.
The heaviest ear of corn bends its head lowest.
The weight of years is the heaviest load.
If you've seeded before a heavy rain, one out of one hundred of your plants will be out of line, but if you wait and seed later, one out of one hundred will take.
Put a heavy load on an old donkey.
The sky is heavy with rain, but does not come.
A rich mouthful, a heavy groan.
The heaviest thing in the world is an empty pocket.
Every one feels his own burden heavy.
On an empty belly every burden is heavy.
On a long journey, even a straw weighs heavy.
We are not disposed to study much after heavy meals.
Even a straw becomes heavy, if you carry it far enough.
Horns are not too heavy for the cow.
A heavy stone is not easily moved.
Human blood is heavy; he who has shed it cannot run away.
тяжелое проклятие A light purse is a heavy curse.
A hen carried far is heavy.
A rich mouthful, a heavy groan.
The heaviest burden is an empty pocket.
A light purse makes a heavy heart.
Anything that is heavy can be light if we put our resources together.
If you've seeded before a heavy rain, one out of one hundred of your plants will be out of line.
[If all of us] take hold of [it] together, it won't feel heavy.
A heavy cauldron takes long to boil.
He is afraid of it, as the devil fears holy water or incense.
Never was hood so holy but the devil could get his head into it.
The most useful holy war is the one fought against your own passions.
Keep the weekdays honest and it will be easy to keep the Sabbath holy.
The day is never so holy that the pot refuses to boil.
The Donkey, though it may go to the Holy Land, will still come back a donkey.
Public money is like holy water, every one helps himself to it.
He who eats holy bread has to deserve it.
Holy souls! One of them gathers and many eat.
Two are holy: a church and a sauna.
When the words are said, the holy water is made.
After death, say holy.
They are not all saints who use holy water.
The devil loves no holy water.
When a hen is brooding, another hen cannot sit on her eggs.
The robin and the wren are God's cock and hen; the martin and the swallow are God's mate and marrow.
Add up your pennies, and buy a hen.
Ask which was born first, the hen or the egg.
If the hen had not cackled, we should not know she had laid an egg.
There is little peace in that house where the hen crows and the cock is mute.
Every cackling hen was an egg at first.
The hen lays an egg, and the cock feels the pain in his backside.
An old hen makes strong soup.
A hen does not break her own eggs.
The hen tells the cock to crow.
When the hen gets fat, she stops lying.
It is unwise for one to think that a hen will ever be accorded respect in the land of the hawks.
Even the hen looks toward heaven when she drinks.
A cackling hen doesn't always lay.
A whistling girl and a crowing hen never came to a good end.
If you are a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
A black hen lays a white egg.
The scraping hen will get something; the crouching hen nothing.
If the hen did not cackle no one would know what she had been about.
Blind hen also finds grains.
The miller's hen and widower's maid, of want need never be afraid.
It is a bad hen that does not scratch herself.
It is a bad hen can't scrape for herself.
A hen is heavy when carried far.
A whistling woman and a crowing hen will bring no luck to the house they are in.
The Blind hen, when it sees again, wants even to mount the cock.
The Chicken teaches the hen to lay eggs.
Where the cock is the hen does not crow.
The hen that stays at home picks up the crumbs.
Better is my neighbour's hen than mine.
Truth is scraped out even by a hen.
The hen that cackles in the evening lays no eggs in the morning.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
When one is taking a chicken from its roost, the hen is bound to attack with at least its claws.
When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is topsy-turvy.
Who goes to catch a partridge will lose a hen.
It is not the hen which cackles most that lays most eggs.
A black hen lays a white egg.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
A hungry hen sees herself in a wheat silo.
Grain by grain the hen fills her crop.
Bad hen, bad egg.
When the hen steps on the feet of her chicken, she does not mean to kill them.
Cockroach ain't have nuh right at hen party.
The first hen that cackles is the one that laid the egg.
Kill a hen to get the egg.
The turtle lays thousands of eggs without anyone knowing, but when the hen lays an egg, the whole country is informed.
The hen knows that dawn has arrived but it leaves the duty of crowing to the cock.
If you want to blame the fox, then blame the hen too.
The egg shows the hen where to hatch.
The fox must be chased away first after that the hen might be warned against wandering into the bush.
The cockroach cannot be innocent in a court where the hen is judge.
No matter how small a pin can be a hen cannot swallow it.
A whistling girl and a cackling hen come to no good end.
An egg today is worth a hen tomorrow.
Eggs can't teach the hen.
Ye'll no sell your hen in a rainy day.
Your thrift's as gude as the profit o' a yeld hen.
A hen is heavy when carried far.
Rather the egg to-day than the hen to-morrow.
He who feeds the hen ought to have the egg.
It is not easy to guard the hen that lays her eggs abroad.
It is a bad hen that lays in neighbour's houses.
He has given the hen for the egg.
The hen likes to lay in a nest where there are eggs already.
The neighbor's hen is a goose to a neighbor.
A woman and a hen are soon lost through gadding.
Grain by grain the hen fills her crop.
Prepare a nest for the hen and she will lay eggs for you.
Mad as a wet hen.
A hen that cackles much lays only a few eggs.
Even a blind hen can find a grain.
He that comes of a hen must scrape.
It's a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock.
Don't let the chicken into the hen house in January.
When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is in a jumble.
The woman like the hen, gets lost if she walks too far.
What has the rooster of Sciacca been reduced to, to be pecked by the hen.
The laying hen says: give me feed to fill my beak and I'll give you eggs.
Upon an egg the hen lays an egg.
A blind hen can sometimes find her corn.
Better walk before a hen than behind an ox.
Never did capon love a hen.
A wise fox will never rob his neighbour's hen roost.
Eggs cannot teach a hen.
The hen lays upon an egg.
A whistling woman and a crowing hen are neither fit for God nor men.
The lawyer's pouch is a mouth of Hell.
He who has money can eat ice cream in hell.
Hell has no fury like a woman scorned.
Hell is full of good intentions.
War begun, hell unchained.
The gates of hell are always open, even at midnight.
A man yearns for his paradise but it could become his hell.
A man's will can be his paradise, but it can also be his hell.
You can get used to anything-even hell.
There's nobody can prevent you getting into heaven, but there are many always ready to give you a shove into hell.
He who comes from hell is not afraid of hot ashes.
With gold you can make a road to heaven but it will end in hell.
A mind can make a heaven out of hell, or a hell out of heaven.
A devil with fine manners can still carry you only to hell.
Even in hell you meet relations.
Hell is full of good meanings, but heaven is full of good works.
Hell is populated with the victims of harmless amusements.
An American will go to hell for a bag of coffee.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
It is good to have some friends both in heaven and hell. (1640)
The descent to hell is easy.
When war begins, then hell opens.
Half a house is half a hell.
If there be a hell, Rome is built over it.
It is harder work getting to hell than to heaven.
Marriage is heaven and hell.
Thoughts are toll free, but not hell free.
A good heart never went to hell.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to hell.
Hell is also made for people.
A much prayed for defunct goes straight to hell.
Hell is paved with good intentions, roofed in with lost opportunities.
One devil does not make hell.
He who is in hell knows not what heaven is.
Hell and Chancery are always open.
Hell is crowded with ungrateful wretches.
If you do good to the devil, out of gratitude he will deliver you to hell.
Even in hell it is good to have friends.
The world at large doesn't lead to hell nor does the monastery lead to heaven.
One road leads to heaven but many lead to hell.
When men take wives they stop fearing hell.
A woman can raise you to heaven and can dump you in hell.
A slattern woman hold open the door to hell.
Repay evil with good, and hell will not claim you.
To heaven for the music but to hell for a good conversation.
One can even get used to living hell.
Coffee should be black as Hell, strong as death, and sweet as love.
Better rule in hell, than serve in heaven.
A young woman is to an old man the horse that he rides to hell.
He who has money can eat sherbet in hell.
Hell must be in bad condition when even the devil stays out.
Going to be a cold day in hell.
The sufferer goes through hell till the truth comes out.
Even in paradise, living all alone would be hell.
The dead in heaven is too happy to grieve for indignities to his corpse; the dead in hell has too much else to grieve for.
When you reject gifts from heaven you will be rewarded in hell.
Transactions in Hell also depend upon money.
Like a Buddha met with in hell.
A wicked companion invites us all to hell.
Heaven has a road, but no one travels it; Hell has no gate but men will dig to get there.
He who crosses a bridge to paradise and blows it after him is going to hell.
Optimism is a mania for saying all is well when one is in hell.
Drink like hell and be happy.
It is good to have some friends both in heaven and in hell.
When a badman dies, he either goes to hell or to the Pecos.
Heaven hath no rage like love to hatred turned, Nor Hell a fury like a woman scorned.
A man who was always complaining was quite rightly sent to hell.
A young preacher, a new hell.
Life at court is often a short cut to hell.
In time of war the devil makes more room in hell.
There is nothing in the world so poor as going to hell.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Don't go to law with the devil in the court of hell.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.
He who follows advice from women will end up in hell.
A mester is a master in hell as well.
There is a feast once even in Hell.
Hell has been broken loose.
Hell and destruction are never full.
Hell is paved with good intentions.
Hell shared with a sage is better than paradise with a fool.
It is better to be in hell with a wise man than in heaven with a fool.
Hell is not as bad as the road that leads to it.
He must have crept out of hell while the devil was asleep.
Who has a bad wife, his hell begins on earth.
Were the devil to come from hell to fight, there would forthwith be a frenchman to accept the challenge.
For ill do well, Then fear not hell.
On the road between the homes of friends, grass does not grow.
Homes among homes and grapevines among grapevines.
Even your dog knows the homes of your friends.
A guard dog cannot watch two homes at once.
Men build houses; women build homes.
Men make houses, women make homes.
A dog with two homes is never any good.
A man or a woman with many children has many homes.
We share the same sun but not our homes.
Be honorable yourself if you wish to associate with honorable people.
Age is honorable and youth is noble.
Austerity is an ornament, humility is honorable.
If the master gets drunk it is an honorable drunkenness; if the servant does it is evidence of his mean disposition.
An offer of friendship to a friend's foe is unbecoming an honorable man.
Old age is not as honorable as death, but most people want it.
Be brave where bravery is honorable.
An honorable death requires no vengeance.
In war, there is nothing more honorable than victory.
The hole is more honorable than the patch.
The honorable man lives in difficulty.
Remain honorable and don't worry if you're poor.
He who doesn't speak will get no help from God.
God helps them that help themselves.
If you can give me no ointment for my wound, can you help me by not rubbing salt in?
If vodka, tar and sauna don't help, the disease leads to death.
God helps those who help themselves.
Complain to someone who can help you.
Ask help from the spirits after having used all your strength.
Medicine left in the bottle can't help.
To set fire to the wood, you need the help of the wind.
When two poor men help each other, God laughs.
If the bathroom and a brandy cannot help a man, then death is imminent.
Help from abroad always comes when the rain has stopped.
I will charge thee nothing but the promise that thee will help the next man thee finds in trouble.
Hunger brings people down, but pride can help them get up.
Don't help a bull out of a ditch, for when he's out he'll butt you.
Whoever does not help himself cannot help others.
The more help in the cornfield the smaller the harvest.
Look to the past to help us move forward in the future.
Help me during the flood, and I will help you during the drought.
Self-help is the best help.
He that would make a fool of himself will find many to help him.
If you can't help, don't hinder.
I got you, O! worshiper of the helper, to help me but you are in need of help.
There is help for everything, except death.
He who cannot help, may hinder.
Many can help one.
Pray as though no work could help, and work as though no prayer could help.
Two-thirds of help is to give courage.
Help is always welcome, except at the table.
God's help is nearer than the door.
Help thy brother's boat across, and lo! thine own has reached the shore.
Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head.
How can the cat help it if the maid be a fool?
When a father helps a son, both smile; but when a son must help his father, both cry.
Don't help the elephant to carry his tusks.
Ebery day debil help tief, one day God help watchman.
Set aside emergencies and help a woman giving birth.
Help the man climbing a hill, not the one standing below it.
Give at first asking what you safely can; 'tis certain gain to help an honest man.
Good right needs good help.
If Jesus Christ comes to help me, I laugh at the angels.
Discretion is a way of hiding what you cannot help.
If relatives help each other, what evil can hurt them?
If relatives help each other, what harm can be done to them?
Who wakes up early gets the God's help.
Complain to the one who can help you.
Old Satan couldn't get along without plenty of help.
Never help a person who doesn't help anybody else.
There are two things a person should never be angry at, what they can help, and what they cannot.
To forget a strong man who could help you is the same as to scorn him.
The ox which has no horns, relies for help on the one that has them.
A log can not move save by the help of rollers.
You won't help the new plants grow by pulling them up higher.
Distant water won't help to put out a fire close at hand.
He who rides upon an ass cannot help but smell its gas!
When you see a turtle on top of a fence post, you know he had some help.
When your house is on fire you don't choose who to help you put out the fire.
If you cry and receive someone to help you cry more then you cry more.
A little help is worth a lot of pity.
Too much attention to the pigskin doesn't help the sheepskin.
If you help the evil, you hurt the good.
Slow help is no help.
He that is fallen cannot help him that is down.
Much ado and little help.
If a dog offers to help you across the river, don't ask if he is suffering from the mange.
Ask advice of your equals, help of your superiors.
Shame comes to no man unless he himself help it on the way.
God help the sheep when the wolf is judge.
Help is good everywhere, except in the porridge-bowl.
No one gets into trouble without his own help.
One "take this” is better than ten "God help you!”.
It is easy to help him, who is willing to be helped.
One time "here you are" is better than ten times "heaven help you."
To advise is easier than to help.
The greatest things are done by the help of small ones.
Pity without help does little good.
It is the mountains that do not move to help one another; but one man surely comes to the help of another.
When the ox falls, there are many that will help to kill him.
Slow help is no help.
Even the just has need of help.
Help you to salt. help you to sorrow.
For so must it be, and help me do my part.
Where need is great, help is nearby.
Help yourself and the God will also help you.
If thou thyself canst do it, attend no other's help or hand.
Save a thief from the gallows and he will help to hang you.
Quhom God will help, no man can hinder.
Help thy self, and God will help thee.
Woe to the high spirited bride whose mother-in-law is still alive.
Low is the mountain, high the expectations.
High birth is a poor dish on the table.
A lie is like a jump from a high roof.
Aim high in your career but stay humble in your heart.
At high tide the fish eat ants; at low tide the ants eat fish.
You will often see a high collar above an empty stomach.
If you hold high office, the whole village will share your fame.
Hew not too high, lest a chip fall in thine eye.
Not wearing a high cap of someone.
The cost is high of the honey that must be licked from thorns.
High winds blow on high hills.
To every high mountain, there is a higher one.
The wise are as rare as eagles that fly high in the sky.
Mountains are not esteemed because they are high, but because they have trees.
I would like to break off the flower, but the branch is too high.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
However high you lift the kid goat, you place it gently on the ground.
No matter how high the squirrel jumps, it will eventually fall onto the ground.
Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground.
A bird only flies as high as his wings take him.
If you deal in camels, make the doors high.
A house built by the wayside is either too high or too low.
He who would leap high must take a long run.
He who stands high is seen from afar.
Asses sing badly, because they pitch their voices too high.
High regions are never without storms.
Don't carry your head too high, the door is low.
He who would succeed at court, must lie sometimes low, sometimes high.
He that flies high falls low down.
Though the heron flied high the falcon kills it.
He who climbs to high is near a fall.
If you want to build high, you must dig deep.
He who wants to build high must dig deep.
Come hell or high water.
The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree said he would praise himself if no one else did.
When the next house is on fire, 'tis high time to look to your own.
If you want to sell at a high price you'll earn little.
God sits on high and he sees far.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
Deep swimmers and high climbers usually don't die in their beds.
High trees give more shadow than fruit.
After high floods come low ebbs.
The price of a laugh is too high, if it is raised at the expense of another.
In the South they don't care how close you get, as long as you don't get too high. In the North, they don't care how high you get, as long as you don't get too close.
Though a tree grows ever so high, the falling leaves return to its roots.
A bird flies high above and its funeral is performed on the ground.
Two heads cut off and thrown high into the tree have only the winds with which to scheme.
God is high above, and russia is far away.
No price is too low for a bear or too high for a bull.
When you sleep in a house your thoughts are as high as the ceiling, when you sleep outside they are as high as the stars.
Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling.
The person who deals in camels should make the doors high.
Even when a samurai has not eaten, he holds his toothpick high.
The dragon teaches you that if you want to climb high you have to do it against the wind.
A man of high principles is someone who can watch a chess game without passing comment.
Even the high and noble bow before the barber.
No matter how high the vulture may choose to soar, the eagle will remain king of the sky.
When the water's high, the boat's high.
High places have their precipices.
Let my lamp at midnight hour be seen in some high lonely tower.
There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry.
He must stand high that would see the end of his own destiny.
He who wants to jump high must take a long run.
It needs a high wall to keep out fear.
No matter how high a bird can fly, it still has to look for food on the ground.
The flitch hangs never so high but a dog will look out for the bone.
Ambition and fleas both jump high.
Those in a high position can be seen from far away.
The salary of a good servant is never too high.
High houses are mostly empty in the upper story.
He who starts singing too high will never finish the song.
What is too high, that let fly.
The chamois climbs high and yet is caught.
He who builds a house in the market-place, builds either too high or too low.
Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling.
It is not good to eat cherries from the same dish with persons of high rank.
He who climbs high, has a great fall.
God has taken him to a high position.
Death makes equal the high and low.
Envy always shoots at a high mark.
Over high, over laigh.
The bird flies high, but always returns to earth.
High calling brings a high fall.
Sell high and give a fair measure.
You cannot hold your head high with your hand out.
The crow flies sky high and lands on a pig.
Look down if you would know how high you stand.
He who throws a stone in the market will hit his relative.
Stand away from dwarfs, for it's God who hit them on the head.
You cannot hit the point of a needle with a fist.
Though the snake be small, it is still wise to hit it with a big stick.
The one who throws the stone forgets; the one who is hit remembers forever.
Hit the iron while it's still hot.
Hit him with a bean, he will break.
The nail that sticks its head up is the one that gets hit.
Opinions are like nails: the more often you hit them the deeper they penetrate.
The madman, who throws a stone into a crowded market, forgets that his own mother could be hit by his madness.
There is a remedy for everything, could we but hit upon it.
If you are to hit then make it painful, because you'll get one blame eitherways.
never let your tongue hit your neck.
He hit me, started to cry, and went straight to the judge to sue me.
He who stands near the woodcutter is likely to be hit by a splinter.
When you see a goat you should always hit him, because he is either going into mischief or coming out of it.
If you throw a handful of stones, one at least will hit.
When a dog runs away, hit him! hit him!
It is not enough to aim; you must hit.
If you talk to the blacksmith you'll get hit by sparks.
To love a cow, tie it up; To love a child, hit him/her.
Stones hurled to the sky. Don't get angry if you get hit.
It is the dog which is hit by the tossed stick, which yelps.
A hand that is ready to hit may cause you great trouble.
As ass does not hit himself twice against the same stone.
To hit the nail on the head.
They don't hit you in the nose for asking.
Whether you hit an owl with a stump, or a stump with an owl.
Shoot a daw and a crow, and soon you'll hit a falcon.
If you must battle your enemy, hit him where it hurts him most.
The bullet that doesn't hit anything still makes a noise.
Couldn't hit the broad side of the barn.
Don't just aim; hit the target.
Hit them hard and hit them fast.
If you do something wrong to me, I forgive you. But I know that someday God will make you hit the son of a chief on the head. Then the chief will punish you.
‘hit me but I must not hit you' is no game at all.
If someone hits you with a stone, hit him with bread; your bread will return to you and his stone will return to him.
Until the nail is hit, it doesn't believe in the hammer.
Draw the bow but don't shoot -- it is a bigger threat to be intimidated than to be hit.
Hit a stone with an egg.
A good dog does not bite a chicken and a good man does not hit his wife.
The arrow that missed the head of its target will never hit the tail.
Take two and hit to right.
He that shows a passion tells his enemy where he may hit him.
A man does not always aim at what he means to hit.
Too aim is not enough, you must hit!
It hit a nail into his head.
He has hit the udder between the horns.
Amen, said the minister, he hit the old lady in the head with the New Testament.
Hit two flies with one smack.
Hit like a bomb.
A joke must not hit the belly.
One does not always hit what one aims at.
You have hit the point exactly.
To hit a dog with a meat-bun, so it leaves never turning around.
Hit the nail on the head.
Using the old man's cane to hit his own back.
A hit dog will hollow.
An archer cannot hit the bullseye if he doesnt know where the target is.
Hit the nail and you hit the horseshoe.
Being hit by a dear person or by your lover is like eating raisins.
Waiting for a rabbit to hit upon a tree and be killed in order to catch it.
Hit him again, he has no friends. Ударь его еще раз, у него нет друзей.
Once you have decided to hit someone, then hit them hard because the retribution will be the same whether you hit hard or not.
It is not enough to aim, you must hit.
When you see a goat you should always hit him.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to hell.
It's better that the bakers are on horseback than the doctors.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he don't trot, but gallops.
Sickness comes on horseback, but goes away on foot.
Diseases come on horseback, but steal away on foot.
The Lord will not fail to come, though he may not come on horseback.
Pride went out on horseback, and returned on foot.
Put a begger on horseback, and he will ride fast, or else break his neck.
Whoever goes on foot during April and May, goes on horseback the rest of the year.
Misfortunes come on horseback and depart on foot.
Set a peasant on horseback, and he forgets both God and man.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death; Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the Devil.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
Two things cannot be hidden: being astride a camel and being pregnant.
Lovers do not hide their nakedness.
You can burn down a house, but can you hide the smoke?
No sin is hidden to the soul.
Hide not the truth from your confessor, your doctor, or your lawyer.
You should discuss over a dog's hide when it concerns your interest.
There is nothing hidden between heaven and earth.
Those who live together cannot hide their behinds from each other.
You cannot hide the sun with one hand.
You cannot hide the smoke of the hut you set on fire.
When a plate is covered, its contents are hidden.
The person who admits ignorance shows it once; the one who tries to hide it shows it often.
He who admits to his ignorance shows it once only; he who tries to hide it shows it frequently.
Nothing so visible than what you want to hide.
Hidden virtues ring like a soft bell.
Love and a cough cannot be hidden.
Wisdom is not like money to be tied up and hidden.
The sun cannot be hidden by two fingers.
When your neighbour is wrong you point a finger, but when you are wrong you hide.
The one who shows off himself in every place will one day search for where to hide.
Don't hide your light under a bushel.
Cats hide their claws.
I kiss thee hide, because thou art to be a wine-bag.
A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy.
A hidden sin is half forgiven.
Love, a cough, and smoke, are hard to hide.
The ass's hide is used to the stick.
The dog that is quarrelsome and not strong, woe to his hide.
There is no coat big enough to hide both poverty and drunkenness.
Gloves hide the ugliest hands.
We do not use our bare feet to search for hidden thorns which we have seen in day time.
Who says the oasis in the desert is happy because of its hidden spring of water?
What's good is often forgotten; what's bad is often hidden.
When cockroach get in a trouble, him well glad fe fun go hide a fowl-house.
Noh care how boar hog try fi hide under sheep wool, ‘im grunt always betray ‘im.
Money from poor men and balls from dogs, impossible to hide.
The devil likes to hide behind a cross.
You hide the fact you hate me; I hide the fact I know.
There are hidden purposes behind an act.
Discretion is knowing how to hide that which we cannot remedy.
Hide the mouthfuls of food.
No matter how hidden a force is, it will attract some kind of resistance.
A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy.
Don't go selling the hide while the bear remains in the hole.
Little by little the mouse finishes the hide.
The hyena does not forget where it has hidden its kill.
To despise the ox means to despise also a strip of hide from it.
You can hide a mark on your skin, but not a defect.
You may hide the fire, but what about the smoke?
Stretch hide while it is still green.
Even if you hide yourself from the world, don't lose sight of your real nature.
You cannot hide behind your finger.
A single merit cannot make a hundred demerits fade; a hundred merits cannot hide a single demerit.
If you walk on snow you cannot hide your footprints.
You can't hide the smoke when the house is burning.
A hypocrite's hatred is hidden behind flattering words.
A person's character is like pregnancy it cannot be hidden.
Truth cannot be hidden forever beneath evil.
Truth is like fire it cannot be hidden under dry leaves.
If you knock your head against a wall, then a coconut tree and pillar and your head still remains undamaged my child, go and hide that head of yours; it is a good head.
If you run too fast you bypass a safe place you would have hidden yourself.
You can hide wine in a gourd but not in the belly.
Man's goodness is a flame that can be hidden but never extinguished.
The animal hide can best be straightened and smoothened when still fresh.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
A friend cannot be known in prosperity nor an enemy be hidden in adversity.
Moustaches hide the imperfections of the mouth.
Often, under the unseeing hide the cunning.
A small cloud may hide both sun and moon.
It is difficult to hide what everybody knows.
Do not hide your light under a bushel.
Wolves are often hidden under sheep's clothing.
He who cannot pay with his purse must pay with his hide.
Hide not your light under a bushel.
Love knows hidden paths.
A cat that is hidden with its tail showing.
Eat vegetables and fear no creditors, rather than eat duck and hide.
Do not drink in advance on the hide of a bear.
He does not hide his opinion under a bushel.
Poverty and love are difficult to hide.
The bride's faults are hidden by the dowry.
Love, beauty and money are three things that can't be hidden.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
You can disguise wealth but you can't hide poverty.
With an old husband's hide one buys a young one.
A sin that is hidden is half forgiven.
Snakes prefer to hide under flowers.
No fine clothes can hide the clown.
Nature will come through the claws, and the hound will follow the hare.
As the big hound is, so will the pup be.
The slow hound often has good qualities.
Don't think to hunt two hares with one hound.
The fed hound never hunts.
It's a bad hound that's not worth the whistling.
And old hound bytes fair.
The well-bred hound, if he does not hunt to-day will hunt to-morrow.
An ill hound comes halting home.
The guest is always the prisoner of the host.
Every guest hates the others, and the host hates them all.
Don't reckon without your host.
The earth is a host who kills his guests.
A merry host makes merry guests.
It is hard to steal where the host is a thief.
If you are a host to your guest, be a host to his dog as well.
A guest has not to thank the host, but the host the guest.
Let the guest come so that the host may benifit.
A merry host makes merry guests.
It is hard to steal where the host himself is a thief.
Better have one bee than a host of flies.
He that reckons without his host must reckon again.
He reckons without his host.
He that counts but his Host, counts twise.
Who reckons without his host must reckon again.
He that reckons without his host must reckon again.
A guest should not cause his host's demise. When the guest is ready to leave, his host should not have given him a hunch-back.
Don't reckon with your host.
Stupidity begins with honesty.
Whenever there is profit to be made then think of honesty.
Don't measure your neighbor's honesty by your own.
Honesty is like an icicle; if once it melts that is the end of it.
Beauty and honesty seldom agree.
Honesty maketh rich, but she works slowly.
Kind-heartedness and honesty can be expected only from the poor.
You will get furthest with honesty.
Honesty and kindness enhance every beauty.
A dying man discovers the honesty with which he was born.
Cheerfulness, helpfulness and honesty are fine, good companions to take with you through life.
Honesty is praised and left to starve.
There is more to honesty than meets the eye.
Beauty without honesty is like a rose without perfume.
Deceit is in haste, but honesty can wait a fair leisure.
Honesty lasts longest.
Honesty may be dear bought, but can never be an ill pennyworth.
Honesty lasts the longest.
Truth and honesty keep the crown o' the causey.
Honesty with poverty is better than ill-gotten wealth.
The more honesty a man has the less he affects the air of a saint.
Honesty inherits the land.
Cheerfulness, helpfulness and honesty are fine, good companions to take with you through life.
Honesty is praised and left to starve.
Honesty is the best policy.
Не that loses his honesty has nothing else to lose.
Honesty is the best policy.
A cracked pot never fell off the hook.
It is vain to fish if the hook is not baited.
The fish does not go after the hook, but after the bait.
The fish sees the bait not the hook; a man sees not the danger - only the profit.
Fish bite best on a golden hook.
An italian only feels safe with his hook in his belt.
Any fish is good if it is on the hook.
Don't hang all your clothes on one hook.
You cannot hook trout? Try digging clams.
By hook or by crook.
The bait hides the hook.
Let the bait hide the hook.
It is vain to fish without a hook, or learn to read without a book.
The best fish hook cannot catch limp cheese.
An ill shearer nexer gat a good hook.
On the hook of truth only small carp will bite; in the net of falsehood the big salmon are caught.
It's pointless to fish if there's no bait on the hook.
Without grace, beauty is an unbaited hook.
He fishes well who uses a golden hook.
His presents conceal a baited hook.
By hook or by crook.
Wickedness with beauty is the devil's hook baited.
Man is a fish, woman a fisher, love is the hook and marriage is the frying pan.
No matter how huge a hook may be it cannot catch fish in a river.
You need to bait the hook to catch the fish.
A hook is weel tint to catch a salmon.
It is ill fishing if the hook is bare.
Every rhinoceros is proud of its horn.
Every man who can blow a horn is not a huntsman.
If a horn deserves a jawbone, they attach one to it.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cockerels; bleat in a flock of goats.
Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant, it is still blown by a man's mouth.
Even a horn can be stopped from fighting and made to sing forever.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
A horn spoon holds no poison.
When two enemies blow one horn, the third will have to suffer for it.
An ox can be taken by his horn, a man by his word.
A new tout in all old horn.
He that blaws best should bear the horn.
Take a man by his word, take a bull by its horn.
When hitting the horn of a single cow, the horns of a thousand cows hurt.
The horn that came out last will pass the ear that came out first.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
Take an ox by his horn, a man by his word.
Three things are not to be trusted; a cow's horn, a dog's tooth, and a horse's hoof.
The old bull has a stronger horn.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants.
Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
Take a man by his word, and a Cow by her horn.
Snailie, snailie, shoot out yer horn, and tell us if it'll be a bonny day the morn.
Happy hours are very short.
Moral people sleep well at night, but the immoral seem to get pleasure from the waking hours much more.
If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work.
The sun dial counts only the bright hours.
A Kerry shower is of twenty-four hours.
With a bottle and a girl one does not count the hours.
A great estate is not gotten in a few hours.
Hours once lost cannot be regained.
In twenty-four hours, a house can become a patriarch.
Happy people never count hours as they pass.
A spared body only goes twenty-four hours further that another.
Six hours sleep for a man, seven for a woman, and eight for a fool.
If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work.
Hours are Time's shafts, and one comes winged with death.
Saints sleep three hours, merchants sleep five, ordinary people seven and the lazy sleep nine.
In Russia every day is of thirty hours.
All the hours wound you, the last one kills.
With a good friend the hours are short.
The gods do not deduct from marls allotted span the hours spent fishing.
Always hold a true friend with both of your hands.
He who gives a monkey as a present doesn't keep hold of its tail.
Buffaloes are held by ropes, man by his words.
A drowning man takes hold of his own hair.
If you hold high office, the whole village will share your fame.
Hold your children with your heart but teach them with your hands.
Even the bottom of a basket finds something to hold.
The earth is not ours, it is a treasure we hold in trust for future generations.
Hold short services for minor Gods.
Hold him! Hold him! and you yourself after him.
When you are seized, hold on yourself.
If passion drives, let reason hold the reins.
He must have leave to speak who cannot hold his tongue.
Children are buttonholes that hold their parents together.
Good faith is a seldom guest, when you have him, hold him fast.
Let him who is well off hold his tongue.
That usury is a sin some hold, but take for granted they've no gold.
What you have, hold.
I see by my daughter's face when the devil lays hold of my son-in-law.
One may teach another to speak, but none can teach another to hold his peace.
A sack was never so full but that it would hold another grain.
It is good to hold the clothes of one who is swimming.
He that by the plough would thrive, Himself must either hold or drive.
No one ever repented of having held his tongue.
The crow hold the chilli in the mouth.
A slattern woman hold open the door to hell.
A desperate person will even hold on to a knife edge.
I see by my mother-in-law's eyes when the devil takes hold of her.
Hold on tight to the words of your ancestors.
It is too late to cry "Hold hard!” when the arrow has left the bow.
One must sometimes hold a candle to the devil.
Who falls in the water will hold on to the foam to save himself.
One armpit cannot hold two watermelons.
Take hold lightly; let go lightly. This is one of the great secrets of felicity in love.
Keeping a woman to her word is like trying to hold an eel by its tail.
If you want to be revenged, hold your tongue.
One head cannot hold all wisdom.
The son of a klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade.
All we can hold in our cold dead hands is what we have given away.
Goods given make quicker return than goods held.
Never give thanks for a favor held back.
He who goes to the quarterdeck and forecastle will return to the hold eventualy.
The responsibility of power is like holding an egg. Grasp it too tightly and it will drip through your fingers; hold it too loosely and it will drop and break.
Wisdom is attained by learning when to hold one's tongue.
You don't give someone a goat for a gift and still hold on to the rope.
A needle cannot hold two threads or a mind two thoughts.
A small house will hold a hundred friends.
The tongue weighs practically nothing, but so few people can hold it.
Hold a true friend with both hands.
If you want to lean on a tree, first make sure it can hold you.
It is a surprise that the cock should hold a grudge against the pot, instead of the knife that killed it.
The mind of a fool is like a broken pot it will hold no wisdom.
A man has to hold his mouth open a long time before a roasted partridge flies into it.
You can't hold another fellow down in the ditch unless you stay down there with him.
An eel held by the tail is not yet caught.
Get what you can, and what you get, hold; it's the stone that will turn all your lead into gold.
Old brag is a good dog, but hold fast is better.
When all is wet to the skin, hold out yet.
One hand can't hold two watermelons.
Take off your hat quickly but slowly take hold of your purse.
Hold your dog in readiness before you start the hare.
When old horses get warm, they are not easily held in.
No bed is big enough to hold three.
Five fingers hold more than two forks.
It is easier to talk than to hold one's tongue.
Grasp no more than thy hand will hold.
All ships leak: some amidships, some in the bows, some in the hold.
He who knows little knows enough if he knows how to hold his tongue.
Here is nothing, hold it tight.
Hold fast when you have.
Quha may hold that will away?
I shall hold his Nose to the Grindstone.
When man pikin dey piss, him dey hold something for hand. Woman wey try-am, go piss for her hand.
While seeking new friends, hold to the old.
Who seizes too much with his own hand, will have everything slip away and will hold nothing.
Hyena says that men are wise because they know how to hold a firebrand.
If there is someone to haul the fir-tree, there shall be no shortage of those willing to hold a branch to help.
You cannot hold your head high with your hand out.
When you look to the heights, hold on to your hat.
The mouse that hath but one hold is soon caught.
He may swim boldly who is held up by the chin.
It is always well to keep hold of your horse's bridle.
Who falls into the sea will take hold even of a snake.
Grasp no more than thy hand will hold.
See, hear, and hold your tongue.
Take hold of a good minute.
When they offer you a ring, hold out your finger.
Three who held each other are as good as six.
He that lives with wolves, must howl with wolves.
He who lives among wolves learns to howl.
Who keeps company with a wolf will learn to howl.
One dog snarls at a shadow; a hundred howl at each other's barking.
A dog will not howl if you beat him with a bone. (1659)
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
You must howl with the wolves when you are among them.
He who herds with wolves, learns to howl.
Who herds with wolves, must howl with wolves.
One must howl with the wolves.
If you live with wolves learn to howl.
Live with wolves, and you learn to howl.
Where there are no dogs the wolves will howl.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must howl among the wolves.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
Wise men honor their wives.
Some are born to honor, and some have honor thrust upon them.
Don't look for more honor than your learning merits.
A kingdom's strength is in mutual honor.
He who lives without discipline dies without honor.
Honor goes to God; the priests get the bacon.
A woman's honor consists in the good opinion the world has of her.
Where there is no shame, there is no honor.
Honor follows those who flee from it.
We might've fallen from the horse, but not from the honor.
To give is honor, to beg is dishonor.
Honor and profit will not keep in one sack.
Every man is the guardian of his own honor.
To do one's duty is to eat the prized fruit of honor.
Honor is determined by your dress.
Money is truthful. If a man speaks of his honor, make him pay cash.
After honor and state follow envy and hate.
Take care of clothes since they are new, take care of your honor since you are young.
Guard your honor from your youth, and your weapons once you've got them in hand.
Chins without beards deserve no honor.
Honor is better than honors.
Jealous about honor and careless about providing.
When you insult a klingon's honor, prepare for trouble.
There is no honor in poverty.
Honor is more important than life.
The klingon who kills without showing his face has no honor.
There is no honor in attacking the weak.
Only an enemy without honor refuses to show himself in battle.
One does not achieve honor.
A klingon does not postpone a matter of honor.
To be without silver is better than to be without honor.
From our ancestors come our names from our virtues our honor.
If you are honored, honor yourself.
A man's word is his honor.
A man of honor will feel ashamed by a single question to which he does not know the answer.
It is better to save your innocence at the cost of your honor, than to save your country at the cost of your life.
A gracious woman obtains honor, and strong men obtain riches.
Before honor is humility.
There is honor even among thieves.
He who wants to sell his honor will always find a buyer.
Honor buys no meat in the market.
They who deserve honor, fail of it; and they who obtain it, do not deserve it.
Honor is better than honors.
Honor a child and he will honor you.
Who loses honor won't ever find it.
What good is honor when you're starving?
Honor and money cannot go in the same sack.
Honor buys no meat in the market. Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper.
The more danger, the more honor.
A man without honor smells worse than a corpse.
Better retreat in honor than advance in disgrace.
Who loses honor can lose nothing else.
The post of honor is the post of danger.
Take care of clothes from new, take care of [your] honor from when [you are] young.
To die in the season of plague brings no honor.
Where there is no shame, there is no honor.
Better die with honor than live with shame.
Before honor is humility.
The key that unlocks is also the key that locks. Honor a child, and he will honor you.
Before honor is humility.
Burial is the way to honor the dead.
Wealth lost, something lost; honor lost, much lost; courage lost, all lost.
There's honor among thieves.
Not everyone who sits in the seat of honor is master.
Aim high in your career but stay humble in your heart.
The poor ones give their alms in a humble way, the rich man throws them down with contempt.
Those whose palm-kernels were cracked for them by a benevolent spirit should not forget to be humble.
The voice that comes to borrow is more humble than the voice that comes to sake payment.
Those who get their kola nut cracked by the spirit should should not forget to be humble.
Knowledge is proud that he knows so much; wisdom is humble that he knows no more.
Boast during the day; be humble at night.
To be a smart man you need to be humble.
A smart man is usually humble.
The humble pay for the mistakes of their betters.
Be humble in making demands even when making your demands.
A slave must be humble.
Despise not a small wound, a poor kinsman, or an humble enemy.
The more noble the more humble.
Too humble is half proud.
No office so humble but it is better than nothing.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove.
Be humble for you are made of earth. Be noble for you are made of stars.
The humble pay for the mistakes of their betters.
Three humble shoemakers brainstorming make a great statesman.
Knowledge is proud that he knows so much; wisdom is humble that he knows no more.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb.
Honour once lost never returns.
Honour buys no beef.
When dirt comes to honour it know not what to be.
Honour the old, teach the young.
Honour the tree that gives you shelter.
Better deserve honour and not have it, than have it and not deserve it.
Honour a good man that he may honour you, and a bad man that he may not dishonour you.
It is not honour for an eagle to vanquish a dove.
A hundred years cannot repair a moment's loss of honour.
An old flag is an honour to its captain.
A sword's honour is its idleness.
Who grows up without fear will live without honour.
Better poor with honour than rich with shame.
God sells knowledge for labour, honour for risk.
Fortune lost, nothing lost; courage lost, much lost; honour lost, more lost; soul lost, all lost.
A man in not known till he cometh to honour.
Envy crieth of spite where honour rideth.
One does it for love, another for honour, a third for money.
An old ensign is a captain's honour.
One should strive to maintain one's honour.
Honour to whom honour is due.
Honour your father and your mother.
Better die with honour than live with shame.
God sells knowledge for labour -- honour for risk.
Where law lacks, honour should eke it out.
Suffering and patience, obedience and application, help the lowly born to honour.
Poor relations have little honour.
A man's word is his honour.
He who lives without restraint, will die without honour.
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreaseth.
Where there's no love, there's no honour.
A seat in the council is honour without profit.
He defends the honour of the uniform.
Where there is no honour, there is no grief.
Eild wald have Honour.
Neither draw me without cause, nor return me without honour.
Every feast has its guest of honour.
From the father comes honour, from the mother comfort.
To every lord every honour.
The word of honour of a gentleman--another pledge would be better.
Do not lose honour through fear.
He who does not honour his wife, dishonours himself.
Fond of lawsuits, little wealth; fond of doctors, little health; fond of friars, little honour.
It is thou must honour the place, not the place thee.
What is honour? a word. What is that word, honour? Air. (William Shakespeare)
Eild should hae honour.
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreasefh.
Honour and profit lie not in one sack.
Cunning has little honour.
If some men knew who some men were, then some would pay the more honour there.
Honour a good man that he may honour you, and a bad man.
Let me drink beer shandy and sit in the seat of honour!
A younger brother should honour an older brother. He should treat him with human dignity.
The post of honour is the post of danger.
Honour is the reward of virtue.
Either live or die with honour.
Salt is the honour of food.
With honour and store, what would you more.
It may be better to have honour than wealth.
The sieve says to the needle, "You have a hole in your tail."
Can't tell his ass from a hole in the ground.
The snake and the crab don't sleep in the same hole.
When a mouse makes fun of a cat, there is a hole.
When the mouse laughs at the car, there is a hole nearby.
To ask a favor from a miser is like trying to make a hole in water.
You can't build a barrel round a bung hole.
Even if the sky falls on you, there is a hole that you can escape from.
When the mice laugh at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
Those who digs an evil hole will fall into it.
Two rats cannot share the same hole.
Pleasent words will draw the snake from its hole.
Quiet worms will bore a hole in the wall.
When a man's coat is threadbare, it is easy to pick a hole in it.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
If you dig a hole to bury a person but instead of burying that person you may be the one to be buried in this place.
You can't fit a round peg in a square hole.
If you're in a hole, stop digging.
Better a patch than a hole.
There is no law but has a hole in it, for those who can find it out.
One may see through a wall, if there's a hole in it.
The fox does not prey near his hole.
A Word makes no hole, a pinch tears no underskirt.
The wise man sits on the hole in his carpet.
The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught.
The rat which has but one hole is soon caught.
Carve the peg only after studying the hole.
The person who knows himself and his opponent will be invincible. Carve a peg only after you have observed the hole.
Carve the peg by looking at the hole.
A greedy mek fly follow coffin go a hole.
Cuss-cuss never bore hole a man' kin.
I cow dod did know how him troat hole ton him wouldn't chance pear seed.
Who takes care of a widow's ‘hole' will inherit the heavenly kingdom.
It's easier to tear a hole than to mend one.
The mouse that only trusts to one poor hole, Can never be a mouse of any soul.
Like a fish, one should look for a hole in the net.
Sharing a secret with a rogue is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying a grain in a bag with a hole in it.
The rat who only knows about one hole will soon be caught by the cat.
Don't go selling the hide while the bear remains in the hole.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: I climb a tree without arms.
If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging.
A joke is often the hole through which truth whistles.
The hole the crab digs takes on the shape of its shell.
A hungry man will thrust his fingers into a snake's hole in search of a grasshopper.
When the mouse laughs at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: climb a tree without arms.
Two scorpions living in the same hole will get along better than two sisters in the same house.
It is a poor fox that has but one hole.
The hole is more honorable than the patch.
The hole invites the thief.
He fills one hole with another.
The mouse that has but one hole is quickly taken.
I gave the mouse a hole and she is become my heir.
Better a clout nor a hole out.
She is a sairy mouse, that hes but one Hole.
He is a proud Tod that will not scrape his own Hole.
It is a mean mouse that has but ae hole.
He that winna thole maun flit mony a hole.
He's a proud fox that winna scrape his ain hole.
A neck without a head, buttocks without a hole and a girl without shame are not worth admiring or marrying.
Bucket wid hole a battam have no business a riverside.
The crab has stuck fast between the stones at the entrance of its hole.
Every worm has its hole.
The one who digs a hole for another will fall in it himself.
A peg for every hole.
The mouse has but one hole is soon caught.
Don't dig a hole for someone else, as you will fall into it yourself.
Do not dig a hole for somebody else; you yourself will fall into it.
Kind words will get a snake out of its hole.
When a fox is in his hole, the smoke fetches him out.
The rat that has but one hole is soon caught.
The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat.
He who peeps through a hole may see what will vex him.
The stone is hard and the drop is small, but a hole is made by the constant fall.
A mouse relies not solely on one hole.
Who digs a hole for another, falls in it himself.
From there comes talk like from box and every hole.
Can't tell his ass from a hole in the ground.
In time of war, any hole is trench.
We've made a hole in the water.
He who digs a hole for someone, will fall in it himself.
If the man in front falls into a hole, do not follow him.
Many rats cannot all at once dig a hole for their home.
He who peeps through a hole, may see what will vex him.
When a man's coat is threadbare it is easy to pick a hole in it.
The mouse that has but one hole is quickly taken.
The hunchback sees the hump of others – never his own.
"Give me a push from my back" does not mean give me a hunchback.
A short man carry a hunchback man.
If the fool has a hunchback no one remarks about it; if a wise man has a boil everybody talks about it.
Only death will cure the hunchback.
Work makes you into a hunchback and then rich.
The hunchback does not see his own hump, but sees his companion's.
[Only] grave will cure the hunchback.
The hunchback does not see his own hump, but he sees his brother's.
The camel never sees his own hump, but that of his brother is always in his eyes.
A cow is not oppressed by its own hump.
One camel does not make fun of another camel's hump.
A camel never sees its own hump.
The Hump is straightened only by the grave.
The hunchback sees the hump of others – never his own.
Everybody has a hump when he stoops.
One camel does not make fun of the other camel's hump.
The hump of the ox that has grown old must be eaten by women.
One camel does not make fun of the other camel's hump.
The hunchback does not see his own hump, but sees his companion's.
Cat patting leads to hump raising.
The hunchback does not see his own hump, but he sees his brother's.
Truth seldom finds a home.
Be a lion at home and a fox abroad.
Where I make my living, there is my home.
There's no place like home.
You cannot buy wisdom abroad if there is none at home.
A lonely person is at home everywhere.
Do not stay too long when the husband is not home.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it comes home broken at last.
East or West, home is best.
In the home of the coward they laugh while in the home of the brave they cry.
When throne into the sea the stone said, 'after all, this is also a home.'
An ugly girl does not become old at home.
The bell rings loudest in your own home.
The world is a journey, the afterworld is home.
At home saints never perform miracles.
Before preparing to improve the world, first look around your own home three times.
Home is where the heart is.
When a heifer is far from home she grows longer horns.
Home, sweet home.
You can wait till the cows come home.
The cock goes to town for only four days and returns home a peacock.
Although the snake does not fly it has caught the bird whose home is in the sky.
It's best to wash one's soiled linen at home.
The frost drives the pig home.
When in someone else's home leave your defects at the door.
Visiting is good, but home is better.
Charity well regulated begins at home.
A man may hap to bring home with him what makes him weep.
Affairs of the home should not be discussed in the public square.
Home affairs are not talked about on the public square.
A lamp in the street, obscurity at home.
Earth is but a marketplace; heaven is home.
The hunter who always comes home with meat is a thief.
Away from home the girl picks forbidden fruit.
Mouth is the home of words.
If you are eager to be in the shadow, leave your axe at home.
Don't stay long when the husband is not at home.
If you are going out for a fight leave your best hat at home.
The good wife at her husband's home, the other one is at her parent's home.
He who goes to the blacksmith's shop comes home with scorched clothes.
The sun at home warms better than the sun elsewhere.
The chickens have come home to roost.
Home is not a structure, but something in your heart.
Night brings the cows home.
A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home.
An Englishman's house (home) is his castle.
He who got out of his home lessened his value.
Like the man who shields himself with a spiders home.
A woman's mosque is her home.
If you play with the fool at home, he will play with you abroad.
Love begins at home.
First look at home, then censure me.
A gosling flew over the Rhine, and came home a goose.
He who has the fortune brings home the bride.
Pilgrims seldom come home saints.
The furthest way about is the nearest way home.
Bricks and mortar make a house, but the laughter of children make a home.
The eye should be blind in the home of another.
When everybody's house is on fire go home and look at your own chimney.
Your wife and sheep early at home.
Dirty clothes one washes at home.
Justice begins at home.
A dull ass near home trots without the stick.
The hen that stays at home picks up the crumbs.
The liar will travel the world over, but chooses not to go back home.
My home is my castle.
Home, dear home, small as thou art, to me thou art a palace.
Every dog is a lion at home.
He that is drunk is gone from home.
Where shall a man have a worse friend than he brings from home.
A woman's place is in the home.
Go abroad and you'll hear news of home.
He has done like the Perugian who, when his head was broken, ran home for his helmet.
Who loves to roam may lose his home.
When we are at our happiest, then it is best to leave and go home.
Peccadilloes at home, deadly sins abroad.
A home without guests, a village without shepherds, both are hopeless indeed.
If you ask for too much at once, you will come home with an empty bag.
One can only try to get what one can from the head of an elephant, no one ever carries it home.
A masquerade does not perform to an outside audience until he performs well at the home base.
Rather free in a foreign place than a slave back home.
To be away is well and good, but home is where the heart is.
If you are going into the wood -- don't leave your axe at home.
Who is timid in the woods boasts at home.
Learn fe dance at home before you go abroad.
The closer a relation, the more it hits home.
When you've been had, you go home.
Our good life sure is there for us, unless we learned some bad conduct in our home as children.
One who handles honey, licks his fingers.
The wise man who does not put his knowledge into practice is like a bee that gives no honey.
The bee, from her industry in the summer, eats honey all the winter.
Milk and honey have different colours, but they share the same house peacefully.
He who wants to eat honey should endure the stings.
The tar of my country is better than the honey of others.
Friendship is honey - but don't eat it all.
The bee gets honey from the same flower where the snake sucks her poison.
Flies will easily fly into the honey; their problem is how to get out.
Who divides honey with the bear, will be like to get the lesser share..
Even honey can taste bitter if it's used as medicine.
Bees that hae honey in their mouths hae stings in their tails.
Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle.
The cost is high of the honey that must be licked from thorns.
A spoonful of tar in a barrel of honey.
A boy isn't sent to collect the honey.
If your friend is honey, don't lick it all.
If your friend is like honey, don't lick all of it.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
He who touches honey is compelled to lick his fingers.
If your friend is honey, don't lick him thoroughly.
If you have honey, don't lick the pot clean.
He who dips his finger into honey does not dip it once.
Honey is bitter for a sore mouth.
Vinegar that is free, is sweeter than honey.
Donated vinegar is sweeter than honey.
If you want to know how long a man's tongue is, let him use his mouth to lick honey from a plate.
A man doesn't escape from bees with a lump of honey in his hand.
Similar to a bee: in their mouths they carry sweet honey, and in their tails poison.
He who makes himself honey, will be eaten by the flies.
It is dear honey that must be licked off thorns.
Why would you use poison if you can kill with honey.
If all the bees made honey, there would be enough for even gypsies to eat.
A little gall spoils much honey.
To sell honey to one who keeps hives.
Michael, Michael, you have no bees, and yet you sell honey.
Mouth of honey, heart of gall.
It is not by saying, 'honey, honey,' that sweetness comes into the mouth.
All the honey a bee gathers during its lifetime doesn't sweeten its sting.
Make yourself honey and the flies will eat you.
Some will enjoy the honey, others will have to put up with the sting.
Marriage is a lick of honey and a barrel of bitter.
To a starving man bread is sweeter than honey.
Loving a woman who scorns you is like licking honey from a thorn.
August rain brings oil, honey and must.
Honey is often bitter.
Where there is honey, there are bound to be ants.
He that hath no honey in his pot, let him have it in his mouth.
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings.
More flies are taken with a drop of honey than a tun of vinegar.
A honey tongue, a heart of gall.
He buys honey dear who has to lick it off thorns.
Every bee's honey is sweet.
Honey is not for asses.
He that has not money in his purse should have honey in his mouth.
Until you have smoked out the bees, you can't eat the honey.
Whoever wants honey must breed bees.
He that stirs honey will have some of it stick to him.
His bread fell into the honey.
Honey was not made for the mouth of the ass.
A little gall embitters much honey.
Where bees are, there is honey.
Honey catches most flies.
Honey cloys.
Even if your bee-hive has no honey in it, you shouldn't break it up.
Where there is no honey, we have to make do with treacle.
Even if your bee-hive has no honey in it, you shouldn't break it up.
Constant dipping will empty goud of honey.
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their honey.
Follow bees and you will get honey.
One follows bees will never fail to get honey.
Had you known what bees eat, you would not have tasted the honey.
A spoonful of honey will catch more flies than a gallon of vinegar.
Bees sting him who loves honey.
"t is not with saying, "Honey," "Honey," that sweetness will come into the mouth.
It's better to eat pepper and be happy than to eat honey and be sad.
More flies are caught with honey than with molasses.
You catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails.
Make yourself all honey and the flies will devour you.
When you shoot an arrow of truth, dip its point in honey.
The words of the elderly are as sweet as honey, but if you do not listen they become as sour as bile.
Literal meaning: Cooking fat on honey.
More flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
Let a dog get at a dish of honey, and he will jump in with both legs.
He who would steal honey, must not be afraid of bees.
A drop of honey catches more flies than a hogshead of vinegar.
Words are like bees, they have honey and a sting.
None so keen at the hunting of wolves as the dog with wolf blood.
If you are hunting for a red deer then ignore the hares.
At a hunting expedition you cannot apportion the meat before you kill the animal.
In war, hunting, and love, for one pleasure a hundred pains.
The bird hunting a locust is unaware of the hawk hunting him.
Until the lions have their historians, tales of hunting will always glorify the hunter.
When the mantis hunts the locust, he forgets the shrike that's hunting him.
A dog in a kennel barks at his fleas -- a hunting dog does not feel them.
Hunt in every jungle, for there is wisdom and good hunting in all of them.
The danger that threatens the hunting dog, threatens the hunter too.
Ambition is like hunting for whales – sometimes you lose them.
Go hunting for rabbits - be eaten by wolves.
The dog that barks much is never good for hunting.
Hunting, hawking, and paramours, for one joy an hundred displeasures.
All Houndlesse man comes to the best Hunting.
The elephant and the tiger do not go hunting on the same pasture.
When the hunting dog barks it's a signal that the prey is near.
Who goes hunting without dogs, comes home without rabbits.
There is no hunting but with old hounds.
A dog in a kennel barks at his fleas; a dog hunting does not notice them.
He is hunting for water in the sea.
To go rabbit hunting with a dead ferret.
You cannot hide the smoke of the hut you set on fire.
I am a mud hut, I can not stand shocks.
Many who build castles in the air cannot build a hut on earth.
One who enters a hut does not smell the termites roasting in the boiler.
Do not carry rubbish out of your hut.
Who takes a hut, also takes the rats and cockroaches.
Every man is the builder of his own hut.
A mud hut cannot withstand great shocks.
Who takes a hut, also takes the rats and cockroaches.
To have a hut built from mud here is better than a palace made from gold and marble on the Arabian Gulf.
What good is a palace if it's inhabited by owls. Better a straw hut inhabited by humans.
Nobody entering a hut pays for the heart he will enjoy in it.
The reputation of a thousand years may be determined by the conduct of one hour.
In the hour of your greatest success are sown the seeds of your own destruction.
If he has seven blind daughters, he will marry them in an hour.
A guest sees more in an hour than the host sees in a year.
Even the most expensive clock still shows sixty minutes in every hour.
Half an hour in a spring evening is worth a thousand gold pieces.
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
An hour may destroy what an age was building.
A hundred years of wrong do not make an hour of right.
In the hour of adversity be not without hope.
Time and the hour are not to be tied with a rope.
Better to be queen for an hour than a countess for life.
An hour of play discovers more than a year of conversation (does).
The ass's son brays one hour daily.
The darkest hour is just before dawn.
Alive one hour, dead another.
It is better to be without a wife for a minute than without tobacco for an hour.
Neither shall the wave, which has passed on, ever be recalled; nor can the hour, which has once fled by, return again.
It is better to be without a wife for a bit than without tobacco for an hour.
An hour of pain is as long as a day of pleasure.
Sometimes it takes only an hour to get a reputation that lasts for a thousand years.
Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden.
It takes a year to make a friend, but you can lose one in an hour.
To learn what is good, a thousand days are not sufficient; to learn what is evil, an hour is too long.
What is past is gone, what is hoped for is absent, for you is the hour in which you are.
The darkest hour is before dawn.
A fool can ask more questions in a minute than a wise man can answer in an hour.
Let my lamp at midnight hour be seen in some high lonely tower.
There is an hour wherein a man might be happy all his life, could he find it.
There is but an hour a day between a good housewife and a bad one.
Many men are like clocks that show one hour and strike another.
Time and hour run through the roughest day.
Hour by hour time departs.
Scots-men reckon ay fra an ill hour.
It will come in an hour, that will not come in a year.
A sauna makes a woman most beautiful one hour after the bath.
Lose an hour in the morning, chase it all day.
The morning hour has gold in its mouth.
An hour in the morning is worth two at night.
The hour is passing.
Each hour injures, the last one slays.
An hour in summer is more than a day in winter.
An hour of thinking is more expensive than an hour of working.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
The darkest hour is just before the dawn.
If you want happiness for an hour, take a nap. If you want happiness for a day, go fishing. If you want happiness for a month, get married. If you want happiness for a year, inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime, help someone else.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap. If you want happiness for a day -- go fishing. If you want happiness for a month -- get married. If you want happiness for a year -- inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime -- help someone else.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap.
An hour may destroy the work of a hundred years.
A guest sees more in an hour than a host in a year.
In the hour of adversity be not without hope For crystal rain falls from black clouds.
The morning hour has gold in its mouth.
When the rooster crows off the hour, don't hesitate to adjust the time.
For a job we need time. For fun we need one hour.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
One hour to-day is worth two to-morrow.
It's a good horse that never stumbles.
The horse that arrives early gets good drinking water.
The horse must graze where it is tethered.
A horse has four legs, yet it often falls.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
Bravery without foresight is like a blind horse.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
The horse loves oats; the earth, manure; and the governor, tribute.
The widow is just as fiery as the horse that threw her.
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
Give a horse to the one who likes the truth so that on it he can escape.
Choose a friend with the eyes of an old man, and a horse with the eyes of a young one.
A blind horse goes straightforward.
A fence lasts three years, a dog lasts three fences, a horse three dogs, and a man three horses.
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
The slow horse reaches the mill.
They don't count the teeth of a gift horse.
One doesn't examine the teeth of a gift horse.
Keep five yards from a carriage, ten yards from a horse, and a hundred yards from an elephant; but the distance one should keep from a wicked man cannot be measured.
A dog will not make himself look like a horse just by cutting off his tail.
Trouble rides a fast horse.
The father may well be a horse, but it's most likely that the son will be a mule.
It is easy to see the fly on the other person's nose, while ignoring the horse on your own.
If a pedestrian sees a horse he will want to ride it.
A poor old horse will have a worn out tail.
A good horse has many faults; a bad one has hardly any.
He who is born a mule can never be a horse.
You can take a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
To put the horse behind the cart.
A Horse has four legs, but still stumbles.
It is not the horse that draws the cart, but the oats.
The horse went into the river.
With great learning, a horse, and money, you may travel the world.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan, along comes the beetle and sticks out her foot.
Nobody wants to buy a sleeping horse.
A good resolution is like an old horse, which is often saddled but rarely ridden.
One man may better steal a horse than another look on.
If you see a man riding a wooden stick, say to him "Good health to your horse".
He said, "my uncle is the horse.”.
A proverb is the horse that can carry one swiftly to the discovery of ideas.
When your neighbor's horse falls into a pit, you should not rejoice at it, for your own child may fall into it too.
Do not put the cart before the horse.
On a steep road, let your horse set the pace.
On an uphill road, give your horse his reins.
The best horse can't wear two saddles.
Only a race horse or a comyn lord is judged by his pedigree.
A roan horse and a black can travel equally far in a day's journey.
The stumbling of a fabulous horse.
A whip even to a galloping horse.
If you would shoot a general, shoot his horse first.
When your horse in on the brink of a precipice, it is too late to pull the reins.
The day your horse dies and your money's gone, your relatives change into strangers.
You think you've lost your horse? who knows, he may bring a whole herd back to you someday.
An old friend is like a saddled horse.
The zebra told the white horse, "I am white," and told the black horse, "I am actually black."
Where a horse of a turk passes the grass will not grow again.
Nobody has ever bet enough on a winning horse.
Don't close the barn door after the horse runs away.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
How can the foal amble if the horse and mare trot?
A man without religion is a horse without a bridle.
Take wisdom from the wise - not everyone who rides a horse is a jockey.
A young foal and an old horse draw not well together.
‘almost' does not push a man off his horse.
A golden bit makes none the better horse.
He who heeds not the lost shoe-nail, will soon lose the horse.
Another man's horse and your own spurs outrun the wind.
He who would go further than his horse, must alight and go on foot.
Take a horse to the knacker, and throw in bridle and saddle.
The horse that draws best is the most whipped.
When the horse dies, dismount.
Many a happy colt makes a fine horse.
It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted.
Everyone lays a burden on the willing horse.
The blacksmith's horse and the cobbler's wife are always the last to have shoes.
The morning of the race is not the morning to feed your horse.
The raggy colt often made a powerful horse.
The shoemaker's wife and the blacksmith's horse often go unshod.
Without pressing too little or too hard, hold tight the reins for he's a fool who would not get value from a borrowed horse.
You can take a horse to water, but you can not make him drink.
Wait horse for green grass.
The horse is Turkmen, it eats from both the nose-bag and the manger.
We might've fallen from the horse, but not from the honor.
A fast horse does not want the spur.
You tie the horse at the will of the master.
He that lives on hope will die fasting.
Hope for the best, expect the worst.
As long as there's life, there is hope.
Hope for God, but do not be reliant.
Hope is the nurse of misery.
He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has every thing.
All temptations are found either in hope or fear.
There is hope from the sea but there is no hope from the land.
Hope is the physician of each misery.
It is never winter in the land of hope.
False hope kills more readily than bitter truth.
If the hope is lost, it's better to hurry.
Hope dies last of all.
The lazy man who goes to borrow a spade says, "I hope I will not find one.”.
Hope is the pillar of the world.
The world lives on hope.
Hope often deludes the foolish man.
Hope is grief's best music.
Things never go so well that someone should have no fear, nor so bad that someone should have no hope.
Hope is the dream of the waking.
He that lives on hope has but a slender diet.
Hope and expectation are a fool's income.
He who lives with hope dies happy.
In the hour of adversity be not without hope.
While there's life, there's hope.
Where there is life there is hope.
These can never be true friends: Hope, dice, a prostitute, a robber, a cheat, a goldsmith, a monkey, a doctor, a distiller.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day.
He gains a great deal who loses a vain hope.
He who lives by hope will die by hunger.
Hope is the last thing ever lost.
He gains much who loses a vain hope.
He has gained enough who gives up a vain hope.
Hope is the last to abandon the unhappy.
If it were not for hope, the heart would break.
Where there's life, there's hope.
Hope is a great breakfast but a poor dinner.
The pillar of the world is hope.
Chasten thy son while there is hope.
He who lives on hope, dies on shit.
Hope does not kill; I shall live in hope of getting what I seek another day.
Hope is the dream of a soul awake.
Don't hope for rain or thunder, hope for an agronomist.
The horses of hope gallop, but the asses of experience go slowly.
Hope is our only comfort in adversity.
Hope supports men in distress.
He who lives with hope dies happy.
To die defending his ship is the hope of every klingon.
To die in the line of duty is the hope of every klingon.
To die while serving the empire is the hope of every klingon.
Hope for the best.
Happiness requires something to do, something to love and something to hope for.
Do not anxiously hope for that which is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is already past.
The smaller the lizard the greater the hope of becoming a crocodile.
Your greatest hope is your greatest fear.
Dreams are what you hope for; reality is what you plan for.
He that lives on hope has a slender diet.
Hope of gain lessens pain.
Certainty is better than hope.
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a poor supper.
Too much hope deceives.
Hope is life.
Only death itself can end our hope.
He that lives in hope dances to an ill tune.
Hope and strive is the way to thrive.
Hope is an egg, of which one man gets the yolk, another the white, and a third the shell.
Hope springs eternal.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick.
He who travels with hope, has poverty for his coachman.
A good well-lived today makes every yesterday a dream of a good future, and every morning is a vision of hope.
The person who lives by hope will die by despair.
Abandon all hope, ye who enter here.
Hope for a miracle, but don't rely on it.
Who lives by hope will die by hunger.
While there is life there is hope.
Fear less, hope more,
Whine less, breathe more,
Talk less, say more,
Hate less, love more,
And all good things are yours.
Were it not for hope the heart would break.
Hope puts that haste into zour heid.
He that lives upon hope has a slim diet.
We live by hope, but a reed never becomes an Iroko tree by dreaming.
As long as there is life, there is hope.
It's better to try than to hope.
Timely rain cheers my soul; water and sun during seeding, inspires hope; the rains of April and May are late at night; then the good mornings, will be the wealth of the houses.
Some hope for rain even though they have not prepared their fields.
Hope for miracles, but don't rely on one happening.
A lie can take you far away-but with no hope of return.
Hope for miracles, but don't rely on one.
The hunt is like a dance for men, for the women the dance is the hunt.
Those who hunt deer sometimes raise tigers.
If you have to drag a dog to the hunt, neither he nor his hunting is any good.
Until the lion tells his side of the story, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
If the hunter comes back with mushrooms, don't ask him how his hunt was.
Until the lions have their historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter.
Don't respond to a mosquito bit with a stone because you you will miss it and hunt yourself.
The song sang by men when going to hunt is not the same song they sing when they come back.
You cannot hunt with a tied dog.
It is hard to hunt the hare out of the bush it is not in.
The big game often appears when the hunter has given up the hunt for the day.
Do not wait until tomorrow to hunt.
You are invited to join the hunt when your nets are in evidence.
When the hunter returns and is holding mushrooms, don't ask him about how his hunt went.
Until lions have their own historians tales of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
The mouth that speaks a lot is liable to hunt a friend.
Hunt in every jungle, for there is wisdom and good hunting in all of them.
Don't see animals around the village and say there is nobody to hunt them.
Don't think to hunt two hares with one hound.
One cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
If you are saved from the lion, do not be greedy and hunt it.
If you hunt with cats you'll catch mice.
He who wants to catch foxes must hunt with geese.
If you don't have a dog, you hunt with a cat.
Until lions have their own historians, accounts of the hunt will always celebrate the hunter.
You cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
When the hunt is not successful, go find snails.
The hunter's son knows how to hunt.
Their dogs don't hunt in couples.
The eagle does not hunt flies.
The well-bred hound, if he does not hunt to-day will hunt to-morrow.
Hunt hunti ei murra.
Thieves hunt in couples, but a liar has no accomplice.
To hunt for a hare with a tabor.
When its time has arrived, the prey becomes the hunter.
When its time has come, the prey goes to the hunter.
Fisherman near fisherman. Hunter near hunter.
The forest provides food to the hunter after they are exhaustingly tired.
Until the lion tells his side of the story, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
The hunter who always comes home with meat is a thief.
An elephant hunter usually gets killed by an elephant.
If the hunter comes back with mushrooms, don't ask him how his hunt was.
Until the lions have their historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter.
Both the hunted and the hunter rely on God.
The hunter does not rub himself in oil and lie by the fire to sleep.
Until the lions have their historians, tales of hunting will always glorify the hunter.
The big game often appears when the hunter has given up the hunt for the day.
The hunter does not lie down with the prey.
The hunter knows his prey.
The hunter that speaks too much, goes home empty handed.
It is the hunter who always beats the lions, because it is the hunter who always tells the stories.
A hunter has no mysterious notions about the forest.
The animal that is coming to be killed does not hear the hunter cough.
A hunter is not afraid of thorns.
When the hunter returns and is holding mushrooms, don't ask him about how his hunt went.
Until lions have their own historians tales of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
The danger that threatens the hunting dog, threatens the hunter too.
The bravery of a lion doesn't protect it from the spear of a hunter.
A determined hunter is never frightened in the jungle.
A barking dog was never a good hunter.
A hunter who has only one arrow does not shoot with careless aim.
When an elephant falls, meat is sure to be surplus for those who follow the hunter.
Until lions have their own historians, accounts of the hunt will always celebrate the hunter.
Man is a hunter.
A hunter with only one arrow does not shoot carelessly.
A hunter with one arrow doesn't shoot with a careless aim.
A dog that barks much is never a good hunter.
A gloved Cat was never a good Hunter.
Bake the bread while the oven is hot.
The smallest pepper is hottest.
The hot sun melts away the snow; when anger comes, does wisdom go.
Cold broth hot again, that loved I never; Old love renew'd again, that loved I ever.
When the earth is hot, the worm stays in the ground.
He who comes from hell is not afraid of hot ashes.
One does not like hot, the other does not like cold; make it tepid to make an agreement.
Hit the iron while it's still hot.
Nature gave us two cheeks instead of one to make it easier to eat hot food.
Until a crab finds itself in a very hot pot of soup, it will never understand that water can be both cold and hot.
A child's hand is not burned by hot yam which is placed into his palm by his mother.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Beat the iron while it is hot.
Coffee and love are best when they are hot.
Handle the pudding while it's hot.
An iron rod bends while it is hot.
The one in a hurry, will have a raw and hot meal.
The scalded dog fears hot water, and afterwards, cold.
A scalded dog thinks cold water hot.
Strike while the iron is hot.
The stone in the water does not know how hot the hill is, parched by the sun.
Rockstone a riva battam noh know' sun hot.
Peppa bu'n hot, but ih good fi curry.
Marriage is not just a porridge that you spit out if it's too hot.
Cooked pumpkin stays hot for a long time.
Drink coffee while it's hot enough to make you swear but let the chocolate cool.
A little pot is soon hot.
Casting the iron whilst it is hot.
Coffee and love taste best when hot.
He is not honest who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company the soup is hot.
Fry the chapati when the pan is hot.
The best way to eat hot soup is little by little.
A warrior's blood boils before the fire is hot.
If the qivon is cold, the blood is hot.
Iron is worked when it's still hot.
Strike while the iron is hot.
If greedy wait, hot will cool.
The "obereku" bird should be eaten hot.
Ill gotten gains are like snow that is sprinkled with hot water.
The little pot is soonest hot.
Better the cold blast of winter than the hot breath of a pursuing elephant.
The water in your well can be very hot, but it will never cook your rice.
Good things are hot.
The hottest music and dance always comes from home.
Never lose heart because whatever is hot must in the end turn cold.
However hot the sun, it will never dry the sea.
Even if you rease your clothes in very hot water you still need to dry them.
A fish will not live out of water but will prefer air to hot water.
A little pot is easily hot.
He goes about it like a cat round hot milk.
Marriage is the opposite to a fever attack; it begins very hot and ends very cold.
Young wood makes a hot fire.
Strike while the iron is hot.
He goes around it like a cat goes around hot mush.
He whose mouth was once burned by hot mush, blows even at sour milk.
Soup is not eaten as hot as it is cooked.
Foul water as soon as fair will quench hot fire.
Walk like the cat around hot porridge.
Cold cools the love that kindles over hot.
Over hot, over cold.
Quhen the iron is hot, it is time to strike.
Ye seek hot water under cold ice.
When the sky looks like a hot oven, if no rain today, rain tomorrow.
Hot broth softens hard bread.
Long sleep makes hot rowing.
A hot sun with a lot of wind, I go home and I am happy.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Strike while the iron is hot.
The one who burns his mouth for drinking milk too hot, eats even yogurt carefully.
Who burned himself with hot milk blows on ice cream.
You have to make the most of the chances that come your way. You have to strike while the iron is hot.
When the iron is hot, then is the time to strike.
Soup must be hot -- insults cold.
You are not being honest if you burn your tongue and don't tell everyone else that the soup is hot.
Strike when the iron is hot.
Any home not built for hot days or rains is not a home.
You should forge while the iron is hot.
Forge while the iron is hot.
Coffee hot and the girl young.
Our love is hot like November in Rustari.
You have to forge while the iron is hot.
Hot needle burn thread.
Hot water is not a playground for frogs.
As hot as hell.
Never kick a cow chip on a hot day.
A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam.
The beginning hot, the middle lukewarm, the end cold.
Strike while the iron is hot.
People give, but don't be in a hurry to take.
Too much hurry, and get there tomorrow; take time, get there today.
Never speak in a hurry.
If the hope is lost, it's better to hurry.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets along the way.
When you are in a hurry, the horse holds back.
Living in worry invites death in a hurry.
Nothing should be done in a hurry except catching fleas.
Who is hurry, goes walking.
He who is in a hurry always arrives late.
The person in a hurry usually arrives late.
Nothing is ever well done in a hurry, except flying from the plague or from quarrels, and catching fleas.
Wait time and place to take your revenge, for it is never well done in a hurry.
‘hurry' and ‘well' never go hand in hand.
More the hurry, more the obstacles.
Let us hurry and finish up the food; when visitors arrive, the meal will be over.
You have summer and you have winter -- why, then, be in a hurry?
If one is not in a hurry, even an egg will start walking.
Always being in a hurry does not prevent death, neither does going slowly prevent living.
Never let any mechanical device know that you are in a hurry.
Never let any mechanical device know that you are in a hurry.
A person who is in too much of a hurry stubs his toe.
A fool in a hurry drinks tea with a fork.
If you are in a hurry you will never get there.
If you are in a hurry, go via the roundabout.
Wise men are never in a hurry.
Those who walk slowly reach a far, hence to hurry is not worth.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets.
He who is always in a hurry to get things done he never gets it done right.
Begin in time to finish without hurry.
Careless hurry may cause endless regret.
Hurry slowly.
There's no hurry, said the shoemaker, he had gruel with his awl.
God did not create hurry.
Hurry, and you'll get only shithead kids.
Dress slowly when you are in a hurry.
It is useless, once the water is gone, to hurry.
When a man is in a hurry, the devil is merry.
If you are in a hurry you will never get there.
Hurry, hurry has no blessings.
The greater the hurry, the more obstacles there are.
If you want a beautiful woman, hurry to Syracuse: if you want her ugly, run to Terranova, go to Rosolini if you want her lazy and to Spaccaforno if you're looking for one to try.
If you want a beautiful woman, hurry to syracuse.
You are so many times a human how many languages you know.
You cannot produce one human being without uniting two bodies.
To make an error is human; pushing the same error is dumb.
Erring is human, forgiving is divine.
To err is human, to persist in it, beastly.
A hundred male and a hundred female qualities make a perfect human being.
It is easy to be born, it is difficult to be a human being.
The human tongue is more poisonous than a bee's sting.
The most extensive land is the human belly.
The flow of water and the future of human beings are uncertain.
The human heart is never satisfied, just like the snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
To have saved one human life is worth more than to build a paGoda with seven stories.
Few believe to err is human and to smack, divine.
Human thinks and God plans.
The smallest thing outlives the human being.
To make an error is human, keep doing it is foolishness.
Money is an epitome of human power.
Against the beastly human being even the Gods are powerless.
Beetles that roll balls out of human faeces demand to be hidden away from the rich man, because there is nothing he wouldn't buy.
It is easy to be a man. It is hard to make oneself human.
As chicken is not a bird, woman is not a human being.
To err is human, to forgive divine.
A human being is quite impatient.
The ones that matter most are the children. They are the true human beings.
In order to find evildoers, every human being is given a name.
The heart is the most essential human quality.
The winds of the heavens shift suddenly; so does human fate.
To be human is easy, to be a human being is difficult.
Learn to paint a tiger and you only paint his skin; learn to know a human being and you only know his face.
Rivers and mountains may change; human nature, never.
Blessings of ancestors are greater than those of a living human being.
To err is human; to keep it up is folly.
Human nature is the same all the world over.
To err is human; to dine, divine.
To err is human; to forgive is divine.
I'm human; nothing that is human is strange to me. A good run is better than a bad fight.
Not to have felt pain is not to have been human.
Antagonism is not good for fowls, and it is not good for goats; worse still, it is not good for human beings.
Too err is human.
Men's skins have many colors, but human blood is always red.
Human learns as long as lives.
Evil is no human, / but another is weaker than the other.
You don't know a human 'till you've seen her/him eating, when he believes that no one sees.
To err is human.
Mollah is a human, if an oak will produce an almond.
Without human companions, paradise itself would be an undesirable place.
Human blood is heavy; he who has shed it cannot run away.
To err is human; to keep it up is folly.
Human nature is the same all the world over.
Few believe to err is human and to smack, divine.
Speech is silver, silence is golden; speech is human, silence is divine.
The smallest thing outlives the human being.
The smallest thing outlives the human being.
As many languages you know, as many times you are a human being.
A younger brother should honour an older brother. He should treat him with human dignity.
If human would be an animal Jussi would be the first to put away, said Honkavaari.
A big crowd, but not a human being in sight.
It is the human tongue which makes tremble both man and beast.
Oh hyena, you cannot drag away hides without making a sound.
A hyena intrudes through a gap a dog opened.
The hyena chasing two antelopes at the same time will go to bed hungry.
If the hyena eats the sick man, he will eat the whole one.
Never let a hyena know how well you can bite.
I have to learn how to walk on three legs says the hyena for when I am old.
A careful hyena lives a long time.
How come that when I lost my sheep and could not find it, I was questioned; but the hyena who was found with the sheepskin is not questioned.
A cowardly hyena lives longer.
When the hyena drinks, the dog can only look on.
The cry of the hyena and the loss of the goat are one.
After the hyena has gone, the dog barks.
When the hyena is gone, the dog begins to bark.
Oh old hyena eat me without making excuses.
The hyena of your own country does not break your bones.
A cowardly hyena lives longer.
The hyena does not forget where it has hidden its kill.
The hyena sleeps with the sheep.
A hyena is used to persistent rains.
Call kinship with the hyena, and all hyenas are your friend.
Don't show a hyena how well you can bite.
Oh hyena, don't give me excuse to eat me.
The hyena sleeps with the sheep.
A donkey's husband can protect it from a hyena.
One doesn't call a hyena to displine a troublesome goat.
If the owner of the goat is not afraid to travel by night, the owner of a hyena certainly will not be.
Hyena says that men are wise because they know how to hold a firebrand.
The hyena calls another hyena worse than itself.
The hyena does not eat its baby, and you know how insatiable it is.
Don't spend the evening in a house where you can't spend the night. A good name is better than good perfume. After the hyena has gone, the dog barks.
When the hyena is gone, that is when the dog barks.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
Hyena says that men are wise because they know how to hold a firebrand.
The hyena does not eat its baby, and you know how insatiable it is.
If you what the hyena to eat a person then tie on him goats ears.
One should first stab a hyena then aim for a lion.
When the hyena drinks, the dog can only look on.
The house of the loud talker leaks.
A cat in her house has the teeth of a lion.
Your woman should be in the house or in the grave.
To a friend's house the road is never long.
Milk and honey have different colours, but they share the same house peacefully.
A house without children is a graveyard.
When you are in difficulty, go to the house of your friend -- not your sister's.
Do not leave your host's house throwing mud in his well.
The stronger man will rule the house.
No matter how many house chores you complete, there are always more to be done.
When the bee comes to your house, let her have beer; you may want to visit the bee's house some day.
Better a bad wife than an empty house.
You can burn down a house, but can you hide the smoke?
When building a house, don't measure the timbers in the forest.
Do not be like the mosquito that bites the owner of the house.
In the house of a blacksmith the ornaments are made of wood.
When the master of the house tells a lie, and then offers him a chair.
The elephant will reach to the roof of the house.
When your fortune improves, the columns of your house appear to be crooked.
A girl with a golden cradle doesn't remain long in her father's house.
Keep your house and your house will keep you.
Cleaning the house will not pay the rent.
A house without a woman is like a fire without a bucket.
When a Bulgar gets rich he builds himself another house.
The dog is a lion in his own house.
The ass well knows in whose house he brays.
Stolen house, locks on the door.
Supper is soon served up in a plentiful house.
Guest coming into house – God coming into house.
In every little house there is a little louse.
A fight in your neighbor's house is refreshing.
One man's house burns so that another may warm himself.
A house without a woman is the devil's own lodging.
It is little use to dig a well after the house has caught fire.
There is little peace in that house where the hen crows and the cock is mute.
Water, smoke, and a vicious woman, drive men out of the house.
Rebellious thoughts are like an abandoned house overtaken by robbers.
Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house.
Children speak in the field what they hear in the house.
When you go to a donkey's house, don't talk about ears.
Who stands by the door of his house is not yet gone away.
A widow, like a widower, is a house without a roof.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?
In a fiddler's house, all are dancers.
Every man know whe' him own house de leak.
Sweep the house with a broom in may and you'll sweep the luck of the house away.
To 'get out of my house.' or 'what do you want with my wife?' there is no answer.
Justice is a good thing, only not in my house, but in my neighbor's.
Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house than to have one single enemy inside it.
The house does not rest upon the ground, but upon a woman.
He who never goes to your house doesn't want you in his.
I will do anything except bear the responsibility of guarding a house that has two doors.
Go often to the house of thy friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path.
Believe the liar up to the door of his house and no further than that.
If you live in a glass house, don't throw stones.
A small house can lodge a hundred friends.
He whose house is made out of glass, shouldn't throw stones at people.
If you are wise, look after your house; love your wife without alloy.
Do not measure the timbers for your house in the forest.
It is not the fire in the fireplace which warms the house, but the couple who get along well.
In the hangman's house you will always find a rope.
The house is our father's and the strangers came to kick us out.
Light in the streets, shadows in the house.
In a house of gold the clocks are of lead.
If there is no traitor in your house, the witches will never be able to get at you.
A man without a wife is a man without a house.
Into the house where joy lives, happiness will gladly come.
The dog called "Sorrow," without eating, will be fat in every house.
As soon as a man leaves his house he has seven enemies.
In a wealthy man's house there is no lean dog.
The heaviest rains fall on the house that leaks most.
A woman is like a rat: even if it grows up in your house, it steals from you.
When the lamps in the house are lit it is like the flowering of lotus on the lake.
When buying a house, check the beams; when choosing a wife; check the mother.
Before you plan to improve the world, look around your own house three times.
Several repeated visits to the mud pit enable the wasp to build its house.
One can see it but must not say, when the master of a house passes excreta in a pot.
The house roof fights the rain, but the person who is sheltered ignores it.
If you are in the house of a friend, bad times are soon forgotten.
Envy doesn't enter an empty house.
Burn not your house to fright the mouse away.
He that lives in a glass house must not throw stones.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
A house built by the wayside is either too high or too low.
A house well-furnished makes a woman wise.
An Englishman's house (home) is his castle.
A small tumbledown house is better than a communal palace.
If your house is of glass, don't throw rocks at others.
If you make a fool to pray to God, he will hurt forehead.
'tis easier to hurt than heal.
Not everything, which is bad, comes to hurt us.
No one is hurt by doing the right thing.
The least and weakest man can do some hurt.
Be like the mouth and the hand: when the hand is hurt the mouth blows on it, when the mouth is hurt the hand rubs it.
The barking of dogs does not hurt the clouds.
The dog says: "master, my life is far too good, hurt me in the tail.”.
If you hurt the reputation of another, you damage your own.
He who fights with a wall will only hurt his hand.
When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me.
The ant had wings to her hurt.
Play not with a man till you hurt him, nor jest till you shame him.
More afraid than hurt.
A brave man seldom is hurt in the back.
One knows where the shoes hurt.
With iron you hurt, with iron you'll get hurt.
No lama knows where the ber-chhen will hurt him until he puts it on.
When your neighbor burns down, your hurt is near.
Cry not out before you are hurt.
A blow from a frying-pan, if it does not hurt, smuts.
If relatives help each other, what evil can hurt them?
You can't eat "almost." Even an ant can hurt an elephant.
Even an ant can hurt an elephant.
Eating little and speaking little can hurt no man.
Harsh words hurt more than a poisonous arrow.
Do not hurt your neighbor, for it is not him you wrong but yourself.
What you don't know can't hurt you.
No one was ever hurt by laughter.
The wound caused by a sword can eventually be healed; the hurt resulted from vicious remarks can never be undone.
Don't seek to hurt any man, but if any man seeks to hurt you may he break his neck.
Liquor never hurt a cheap man.
If you help the evil, you hurt the good.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
No man is angry that feels not himself hurt.
Don't cry before you are hurt.
Ill weeds are not hurt by frost.
He cries out before he is hurt.
When you're hungry, sing; when you're hurt, laugh.
The hurt man writes with steel on a marble stone.
One enemy can do more hurt than ten friends can do good.
What you don't know doesn't hurt you.
Flog my erring child comes from the lips, "don't hurt him/her" comes from the bottom of the heart.
A man can sleep on every hurt but his own.
The child is sadly hurt that doesn't tell his illness.
Bed rest cures a hurt leg and a sling heals a hurting arm.
If an offense has hurt you too much, leave it, my friend, for a future time.
When hitting the horn of a single cow, the horns of a thousand cows hurt.
A kick from a mare never hurt a horse.
Better ten people hurt than one dead.
Be careful of what you say as it can hurt more than a knife.
The eyes of the bat are hurt by the light.
There are more threatened than hurt.
A blow from a frying-pan blacks, though it may not hurt.
An eye and a friend are quickly hurt.
Those have most power to hurt us that we love. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
What eyes don´t see, heart doesn´t hurt.
Hurt not others with that which pains yourself.
Words hurt more than swords.
Those who waste time only hurt themselves.
I thought I had made the sign of the cross -- and I hurt my eye.
A man can never be perfect in a hundred years; but he may become corrupt in less than a day.
The first hundred years are the hardest.
If you don't have a hundred rubles, make sure you have a hundred friends.
It's better to see once than hear a hundred times.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will spare yourself one hundred days of tears.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes, the horse thief not one.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years; the slave of a woman dies in six months.
One spark is enough to burn a hundred worlds.
Who has not had a taste longs to do so, but for whom has tasted then the longing is a hundred times more.
Basketeer who makes a basket makes a hundred if he's given line and time.
It is easier to watch over one hundred fleas than one young girl.
Keep five yards from a carriage, ten yards from a horse, and a hundred yards from an elephant; but the distance one should keep from a wicked man cannot be measured.
In my homeland I possess one hundred horses, yet if I go, I go on foot.
Knowing just one word of wisdom is like knowing a hundred ordinary words.
A hundred male and a hundred female qualities make a perfect human being.
One mother achieves more than a hundred teachers.
Power lasts ten years; influence not more than a hundred.
It is better to be a bull for a year than a cow for a hundred years.
A covetous abbot for one offering loses a hundred.
There's no evil that lasts a hundred years, nor a body that can endure it.
He who has a hundred and one pesos, and owes a hundred and two, let him commend himself to god.
He who punishes one chastises a hundred.
You cannot stop a whore, not even with a hundred horses.
A hundred aunts is not the same as one mother.
Better a devil you know than a hundred strangers.
One hundred alcoholics are better than one gambler.
One coin saved, a hundred losses.
There are old men of three years old and children of a hundred.
May you live up to one hundred years and i up to ninety-nine.
Sparrows, though they live to be a hundred, do not forget their dance.
The matchmaker always asks for too much money for his eight hundred lies.
When water goes over your head, what difference if it's one fathom or a hundred fathoms.
He has soaked a hundred heads, but hasn't shaved one.
Our bread today is better than a hundred in the air.
All be the same in a hundred years.
He makes a hundred knives, none of which has a handle.
Better a hundred enemies outside the house than one inside.
Revenge of an hundred years old hath still its sucking teeth.
A hundred years of wrong do not make an hour of right.
Abroad one has a hundred eyes, at home not one.
One foe is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.
Three hundred ravens are scattered by one stone.
He that has a hawk has three hundred partridges.
He who makes one basket can make a hundred.
Thief who steals thief has one hundred years of pardon.
After eating nine hundred rats, the cat is now going on a pilgrimage.
I met a hundred men going to Delhi and everyone is my brother.
One pair of ears would exhaust a hundred tongues.
One enemy is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.
A hundred wagon loads of thoughts will not pay a single ounce of debt.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes; the seller but one.
A favor to come is better than a hundred received.
A fool throws a stone into a well, and it requires a hundred wise men to get it out again.
A hundred years cannot repair a moment's loss of honour.
Better one true friend than a hundred relatives.
One enemy is too much for a man, and a hundred friends too few.
One good morsel and a hundred vexations.
Revenge a hundred years old has still its milk-teeth.
That happens in a moment which may not happen in a hundred years.
He who knows a great deal has a hundred eyes.
A fool may throw a stone into a well which a hundred wise cannot take out.
One sturdy house is worth a hundred in ruins.
The seller has one eye, the buyer, one hundred.
Old age is a hundred disorders.
It is better one time to see things than one hundred times to hear about them.
Who buys wants a hundred eyes, who sells need have but one.
A hundred men can make an encampment, but it requires a woman to make a home.
Two communists lead three hundred unaffiliated.
A fool may throw into a well a stone which a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
A jug that has been mended lasts two hundred years.
A mile walk with a friend has only one hundred steps.
One road for the fugitive and a hundred for the pursuer.
The thief makes perhaps one mistake; those he stole from made a hundred.
What comes out of one mouth goes into a hundred others.
A solitary ox shits more than a hundred swallows.
He that makes one basket can make a hundred.
A hundred tailors, a hundred millers, and a hundred weavers, are three hundred thieves.
A man in love schemes more than a hundred lawyers.
A hundred years hence we shall all be bald.
A hungry man discovers more than a hundred lawyers.
Better to blush once than pale a hundred times.
One foe is too many and a hundred friends are too few.
Us and russians – two hundred millions.
It will be all the same in a hundred years.
The spirit of a three-year-old lasts a hundred years.
The soul of a three year old until a hundred.
He who would go a hundred miles should consider ninety-nine as halfway.
A wild goose may be worth a hundred pieces of gold, but you first have to spend three pieces of gold to buy an arrow.
Hunger is a bigger master than the king.
One day of hunger is not starvation.
Under the mountains is silver and gold, But under the night sky, hunger and cold.
He who does not cultivate his field, will die of hunger.
When hunger gets inside you, nothing else can.
You don't satisfy your hunger by watching others work.
Hunger drives good taste away.
Sympathy doesn't provide food, but it makes hunger more endurable.
Hunger, work, and sweat are the best herbs.
Hunger is the best seasoning.
Hunger brings people down, but pride can help them get up.
When hunger comes through the door, love jumps out the window.
Hunger is felt by a slave and hunger is felt by a king.
Every anguish passes except the anguish of hunger.
Anxiety will not let you die of hunger.
A day of hunger is not starvation.
He who is not beaten by the sun or the rain, will eventually be beaten by the hunger.
Hunger is an infidel.
He that feeds himself from waiting could die of hunger.
He who lives on hope, dies of hunger.
The fox that waits until the chicken falls from the perch dies from hunger.
Hunger and cold surrender a man to his enemy.
The full belly does not believe in hunger.
He who lives by hope will die by hunger.
Hunger is misery; a full stomach is trouble.
Hunger drives the wolf from its den.
Who works hard will feel no hunger.
Both cold and hunger make the mouth quiver.
Hunger finds no fault with cookery.
It is hunger that killed the man with many wives.
The drums of war are the drums of hunger.
Hunger eats through stone walls.
Hunger finds no fault with the cookery.
Hunger gives a relish even to raw beans.
In the land of promise a man may die of hunger.
Hunger is not your aunt.
A man that is lean, not from hunger, is harder than brass.
Hunger has no law; it's just hungry.
Plenty sits still, hunger is a wanderer.
Hunger has no friend.
A dog does not enter a home where they suffer from hunger.
Hunger makes the big fish come out of hiding in the great river.
Working in the fields is hard, but hunger is harder.
Hunger is a good cook.
An abundance of food at your neighbour's will not satisfy your hunger.
Whatever will satisfy hunger is good food.
One's skills are his inexhaustible treasure keeping him from hunger wherever he goes.
If you want your children to have a peaceful life, let them suffer a little hunger and a little coldness.
Where the rain falls there is no hunger.
Hunger makes the big fish come out of hiding in the great river.
What reveals a man is his behavior in time of hunger.
Hunger is felt by a slave, and hunger is felt by a king.
Hunger finds no fault with moldy corn.
He who sleeps forgets his hunger.
Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Hunger is the best cook, but he has nothing to eat.
Hunger is the best cook.
Poverty and hunger have many learned disciples.
Hunger will lead a fox out of the forest.
The well-fed man does not believe in hunger.
No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger.
Hunger makes hard beans sweet.
Hunger transmutes beans into almonds.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Who lives by hope will die by hunger.
Hunger goes in a straight line, desire turns in circles.
Hunger is hard in a heal man.
Quhiles the hawk hes, and whiles he hunger hes.
If hunger forces a farmer in a particular year to eat both his yam tubers and the seed-yams, the succeeding years would still be worse because he would have no yams to eat and none to plant.
Who lives in lust will die in hunger for fat.
Hunger never saw bad bread.
The brave eat the soup, the timid die of hunger.
He who stands by his point of view, must be ready to suffer hunger.
Cold strengthens you more than hunger.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Hunger looks in at the industrious man's door but dares not enter.
A good meal ought to begin with hunger.
No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger.
A satiated man doesn't know what's hunger, a healthy man doesn't know what's disease.
He who lives on hope, dies of hunger.
Hunger is good kitchen.
Hunger and cold give a man up to his enemy.
Satiety has killed more men than hunger.
Hunger teaches us many a lesson.
It is better to satisfy our hunger than to be clothed in purple.
Hunger sharpens anger.
Hunger and thirst scarcely kill any, But gluttony and drink kill a great many.
A good son makes a good husband.
Take care of your pennies and your dollars will take care of your widow's next husband.
Do not stay too long when the husband is not home.
Polygamy makes a husband a double-tongued man.
The husband is always the last to know.
A woman is a flower in a garden; her husband is the fence around it.
The wife carries the husband on her face; the husband carries the wife on his clothes.
it is nothing - they are only thrashing my husband.
Between husband and wife, one doesn't put the spoon.
When husband and wife live in harmony, they can dry up the ocean without a bucket.
The wife cries before the wedding, the husband after.
The woman who does not covet the possessions of her husband is in love with another man.
Widows weep but they look for another husband.
A woman's clothes are the price her husband pays for peace.
Don't stay long when the husband is not at home.
It is the wife who knows her husband.
The woman who takes a wolf for a husband is always looking into the wood.
If your husband has many wives, the only sure way for him into you're the bedroom is through a delicious meal.
He is an ill husband who is not missed.
The woman who loves her husband corrects his faults; the man that loves his wife exaggerates them.
Rather a husband with one eye than with one son.
It is nothing, they are only killing my husband.
A rakish bachelor makes a jealous husband.
It is better to have a husband without love than jealous.
If the wife sins, the husband is not innocent.
It's natural to have some disagreement between husband and wife.
Complain about the house where the husband is the wife.
When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is topsy-turvy.
A wife's advice is not worth much, but woe to the husband who refuses to take it.
Show me your wife and I will tell you what kind of a husband she has.
I can get another husband but never another brother.
A wise husband and a patient wife equal a peaceful home and a happy life.
Call your husband cuckold in jest, an he'll never suspect you.
Do you carry the trough, husband, and I will carry the sieve, which is as heavy as the devil.
The mother keeps on caring for her daughter while the daughter keeps on craving for her husband.
Who is the happiest person in the world? An unfaithful husband.
A husband and wife often fight intensely at one moment and then kiss intensely at the next moment.
A husband of a mother is a father.
A girl receives, a widow takes her husband.
The woman who deceives her husband makes her lover swear never to be unfaithful to her.
Differences between husband and wife should not be aired in the marketplace.
What our husband says is what we also say.
A marketplace is not the pace for a husband and wife to argue.
A donkey's husband can protect it from a hyena.
Each husband gets the infidelity he deserves.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
An ugly woman's husband better be blind.
A deaf husband and a blind wife will always make a happy couple.
Mother, I must have a husband, or I shall set fire to the house.
In a quarrel between a husband and his wife, keep away.
When a wife sins the husband is never innocent.
A henpecked husband gets no support during a lawsuit.
husband, don't believe what you see, but what I tell you.
The cunning wife makes her husband her apron.
A housewife who complains that there is not enough foodstuff in the market should remember that if her husband adds to what is already available, there would be more for everyone.
Better to take an old husband than none.
A husband must be respected, even if he's very short.
Better a poor husband than a lover who's a baron.
When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is in a jumble.
Whoever interferes between husband and wife is a big jackass.
The husband who lacks affection is like a house that lacks a roof.
The woman without a husband doesn't have a friend.
An overbearing wife and a shouting husband will never be in peace.
To the fiancT -- milk; to the bride -- butter; to the husband -- cheese.
To the fianct - milk; to the bride - butter; to the husband - cheese.
The clever wife makes her husband an apron.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
A good husband should be deaf and a good wife blind.
A husband with one eye rather than with a son.
Husband, you are a cuckold; wife, who told you so?
Never marry a widow unless her first husband was hanged.
Husband, don't see; wife, be blind.
Whether it be so or not, husband, put on your hood.
I thought I had no husband, and I eat up the stew.
The well-dressed woman draws her husband away from another woman's door.
A wife is frightened of her first husband and a husband is frightened of his second wife.
When I married a malicious husband, when I bore a malicious son, an unhappy heart was assigned to me.
An obstinate wife and a haughty husband.
Should you ever call your husband 'appā,' however much you may like him?
A husband has two days of joy: bringing his bride to home and bringing her to grave.
It's only love, said the husband when wife threw an axe.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
You flirt with a widow, but do you know how her husband died?
A marketplace is not the pace for a husband and wife to argue. However long the night may last, there will be a morning. Daylight follows a dark night.
It is the woman who knows her husband.
A good wife makes a good husband.
The woman who loves her husband corrects his faults.
The horse with the most scars is the one that highest kicks his rear.
The mare's kicks are caresses to the colt.
A horse grown fat kicks.
A donkey that carries me is worth more than a horse that kicks me.
The one whose foot you heal kicks you with it.
No one ever kicks a dead dog.
Nothing passes between asses but kicks.
The cow gives a good pail of milk and then kicks it over.
When an ass kicks you, never tell it.
The cow gives good milk, but kicks over the pail.
The way a donkey expresses gratitude is by giving someone a bunch of kicks.
He that would have the kernel must crack the shell.
He that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He that wants the kernel must crack the nut.
A mother is like a kernel, crushed by problems but strong enough to overcome them.
There is more disputing about the shell than the kernel.
You must crack the nuts before you can eat the kernel.
Who will eat the kernel of the nut must break the shell.
If we reject the chaff, we may easily lose the kernel.
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
Не that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He that wad eat the kernel maun crack the nut.
However high you lift the kid goat, you place it gently on the ground.
Seven nannies make a one-eyed kid.
When the mother goat breaks into the yam store her kid watches her.
You can't kid your conscience.
Where the dam leaps over, the kid follows.
A good kid goat comes from a young goat and a good lamb from a strong sheep.
A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat.
The wild pear has blossomed: the kid goat no longer suffers.
Ed äsz näszt esi schîn gespanen, Et kid emol un t Lächt der Sanen.
When the mother goat breaks into the yam store her kid watches her.
What the goat does, the kid follows.
You are blaming the hawk, the falcon is killing the chickens.
It is nothing, they are only killing my husband.
Everyone has their own way of killing fleas.
After killing a yakur bird your hands will stink.
Killing a man to save the world, does not save the world.
Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest.
If you flog a baboon because it is ugly, you will end up killing it.
There are more ways of killing a dog than choking it with butter.
There are many ways of killing a pig other than by choking it with butter.
There are many ways of killing a dog without choking him with butter.
When there is killing weather, the dogs grow fat, when there is.
Killing two birds with one stone.
Everyone has his manner of killing fleas.
There are more ways of killing a dog than hanging it.
Nothing must be done hastily but killing of fleas.
There are more ways of killing a cat than choking it with cream.
There's mair ways o' killing a dog than hanging him.
I will not change a cottage in possession for a kingdom in reversion.
Love rules his kingdom without a sword.
The head of your neighbor is a kingdom and his heart a wood.
Who takes care of a widow's ‘hole' will inherit the heavenly kingdom.
In the kingdom of hope, there is no winter.
Home is the father's kingdom, the children's paradise, the mother's world.
A good mind possesses a kingdom.
When given a kingdom, the gypsy asks: what about bread?
Courage is a kingdom without a crown.
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
In the kingdom of the blind men, those who are blessed with one eye are kings.
In the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed are kings.
Arrogance is a kingdom without a crown.
It is easy to govern a kingdom but difficult to rule one's family.
Home is the father's kingdom, the children's paradise, the mother's world.
A horseǃ a horseǃ My kingdom for a horseǃ (William Shakespeare)
A kingdom is lost for want of a shoe.
For want of a nail a kingdom was lost.
That which you put into your soup kettle, comes latter onto your spoon.
But an unwatched kettle over boils.
The pot reproaching the kettle.
Big fish spring out of the kettle.
The pot upbraids the kettle that it is black.
The pot telling the kettle it black.
Pot calling the kettle black.
The frying-pan says to the kettle, "Avaunt, black brows!"
"Fie upon thee, how black thou art!" said the kettle to the saucepan.
A watched kettle never boils.
The earthen pot must keep clear of the brass kettle.
The kettle smuts the frying-pan.
My daughter-in-law tucked up her sleeves, and upset the kettle into the fire.
Said the frying pay to the kettle, Stand off, black bottom.
The pot reproaching the kettle, the side of both is black.
A crooked top on a crooked kettle.
The pot calls the kettle black.
Kindle not a fire that you cannot extinguish.
Little chips kindle fire, and big logs sustain it.
How easy it is to defeat people who do not kindle fire for themselves.
A little spark can kindle a great fire.
Kindle not a fire you cannot put out.
Kindle not a fire that you can't extinguish.
The fire you kindle for your enemy often burns yourself more than him.
Little sticks kindle a fire, great ones put it out.
A little spark can kindle a great fire.
The art is not in making money, but in keeping it.
Keeping a secret is a commitment.
Keeping yourself and your food clean, you'll get more from it.
Keeping an eye on the sail.
Keeping the finger on the wrist.
There is no reply to the ignorant like keeping silence.
Keeping a woman to her word is like trying to hold an eel by its tail.
Unable to keep yourself, you are keeping dogs.
A blind man's wife is God's keeping.
One's skills are his inexhaustible treasure keeping him from hunger wherever he goes.
It is easy to open a store -- the hard part is keeping it open.
Keeping from falling is better than helping up.
Everyone is weary: the poor in seeking, the rich in keeping, the good in learning.
Wit is folly unless a wise man hath the keeping of it.
Keeping silence won't get you to court.
Use your time as best you can, keeping the hoe and oxen ready.
To open a shop is easy -- the hard part is keeping it open.
Finding's keeping.
Kin or no kin, woe to him who has nothing.
If ye had as little money as ye have manners, ye would be the poorest man of all your kin.
Cuss-cuss never bore hole a man' kin.
The white man has no kin. His kin is his money.
Own kin are the worst friends, said the fox, when he saw the foxy dogs after him.
A man cannot carry all his kin on his back.
Many Aunts, many Eames, many kin, and few friends.
Count siller after a' your kin.
God is on the side of the strongest battalions. (Kin 1955, p. 255)
Kissing goes by favor.
Pigs are kissing: a year of acorns.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
Ye're black aboot the mou' for want o' kissing.
Kissing don't last but cooking do.
Thievery and lying are kissing cousins.
Kissing is cried down since the shaking o' hands.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
Ye're black aboot the mou' for want o' kissing.
A donkey always says thank you with a kick.
When an elephant is in trouble even a frog will kick him.
The cripple will always find a stone to kick.
Quiet horses kick the hardest.
Hypocrites kick with their hind feet while licking with their tongues.
The wolf is well pleased with the kick of a sheep.
If you return an ass's kick, most of the pain is yours.
Do not kick away the canoe which helped you to cross the river.
Don't kick a sleeping dog.
The house is our father's and the strangers came to kick us out.
To kick with sore toe only hurts foot.
‘what a dust we kick up,' as the fly said to the cart wheel.
What would you expect from an ass but a kick?
Dead horses can't kick.
Better be killed by robbers than by the kick of an ass.
The mare's kick does not harm the colt.
It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
The quail waits for the stick; the idle loiterer about a place waits for a kick from an old boot.
When someone is going downhill everyone likes to give them a kick.
Don't kick the horse you have to ride.
Gratitude of a donkey is a kick.
Don't kick a dog when he is down.
The kick of a mare never hurt a colt.
Lick upwards, kick downwards.
A kick from a mare never hurt a horse.
The mule long keeps a kick in reserve for its master.
You kick against the goad.
Never kick a cow chip on a hot day.
It is hard to fling at the brod, or kick at the prick.
The mare's kick does not harm the colt.
To die defending his ship is the hope of every klingon.
To die in the line of duty is the hope of every klingon.
To die while serving the empire is the hope of every klingon.
The klingon who kills without showing his face has no honor.
The son of a klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade.
Never cheat a klingon... Unless your sure you can get away with it.
No klingon ever breaks his word.
A klingon does not postpone a matter of honor.
A klingon warrior is always prepared to fight.
Sick people are like kings.
Many students have become kings or queens, but no teachers have.
If a child washes his hands he could eat with kings.
Kings have long arms.
Kings matthias is dead, justice is lost.
There is no room for two kings in one castle.
Kings have long hands.
Kings have many ears and eyes.
Conquerors are kings; the beaten are bandits.
Kings have many ears and many eyes.
Punctuality is the politeness of kings.
Laws go as kings like.
Kings are out of play.
Kings have a long ears.
Kings and Bears oft worries their Keepers.
Kings and bears aft worry their keepers.
If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings.
Kings will find armies, and the world men.
If wishes were true, shepherds would be kings.
In the kingdom of the blind men, those who are blessed with one eye are kings.
The Emperor of Germany is the king of kings, the King of Spain king of men, the King of France king of asses, the King of England king of devils.
Water for oxen, wine for kings.
Kings have many ears and many eyes too.
Kings learn wisdom from associating with wise men.
Kings love the treason, but not the traitor.
In the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed are kings.
If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings.
A servant serves two kings, he is true to one.
The anger of kings is always serious.
When the sun rises, I go to work. When the sun goes down I take my rest, I dig the well from which I drink, I farm the soil which yields my food, I share creation, Kings can do no more.
Know you not that kings have long arms?
Everyone is glad to see a knave caught in his own trap.
Never in speech with a foolish knave shouldst thou waste a single word.
Better be a fool than a knave.
Better to kiss a knave than be troubled with him.
There's many a knave concealed under a surplice.
Do good to a knave, and pray God he may not do the same to thee.
He is no small knave who knows a great one.
For an honest man half his wits are enough; the whole is too little for a knave.
It is a bad thing to be a knave, but worse to be known for one.
The more knave, the better luck.
A Presbyterian minister had a son who was made Archdeacon of Ossery; when this was told to his father, he said, 'If my son will be a knave, I am glad that he will be an archknave.'
Set a knave to catch a knave.
If you can't stand the heat get out of the kitchen.
A kitchen knife cannot carve its own handle.
A greasy kitchen; a will with not much in it.
The kitchen is older than the mosque.
Rats make havoc in the kitchen when the cat's a kitten.
Pick your wife in the kitchen.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
Silks and satins, scarlet and velvet, put out the kitchen fire.
A foreign language is more easily learned in the kitchen than at school.
One dog growls to see another go into the kitchen.
Spending your money with many a guest, empties the kitchen, the cellar and chest.
A fat kitchen, a lean testament.
A fat kitchen is next door to poverty.
A kitchen dog never was good for the chase.
Who frequents the kitchen smells of smoke.
The germans in the stable, the czech in the kitchen and the french in bed.
All that's said in the kitchen should not be told in the hall.
When kitchen dresser tumble dung, maaga dog laugh.
It grieveth one dog that another goeth into the kitchen.
Communities begin by building their kitchen.
If mushrooms grew in the mouth, that would be not mouth but kitchen garden.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
Those who have friends in the kitchen don't starve.
If your mouth is in someone else's kitchen it cannot get its independence.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will.
Silk and velvet put out the kitchen fire.
Silks and satins put out the kitchen fire.
A man could die just cultivating fava beans and the kitchen garden.
It's dumb to put snow on the kitchen spit, the snow melts and the fire goes out.
A daily guest is a great thief in the kitchen.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will.
Hunger is good kitchen.
A fat kitchen is near to poverty.
Hunger is good Kitchen.
"if I rest, I rust,” says the key.
Keep learning because knowledge is the key to power.
Death is the key that will open a miser's coffers.
Gifts is the key to the female heart.
Death has the key to open the miser's chest.
The key that opens is also the key that locks.
Everything worthwhile has a fence around it, but there is always a gate and a key.
Doubt is the key to all knowledge.
the key to all things is determination.
To God's council-chamber there is no key.
The key that is used grows bright.
The key at the girdle keeps me good and my neighbour too.
The golden key opens every door.
Money is the key that opens all locks.
Patience is the key to paradise.
A turn of the key is better than the conscience of a friar.
Patience is the key to paradise.
Sloth is the key to poverty.
Every door with its own key.
Patience is the key to paradise.
The key to all action lies in belief.
Sloth is the key to poverty.
He that will enter into paradise must have a good key.
Idleness is the key of poverty.
Monday is the key day of the week.
A small key opens big doors.
Indecision is the key to flexibility.
There's nothing like having the key of the fields.
Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell.
Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell.
The key that unlocks is also the key that locks. Honor a child, and he will honor you.
The key to a healthy body is a good head.
A golden key can open any door.
Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it.
A golden key opens every door except that of heaven.
The used key is always bright.
A golden key can open any door.
Sloth is the key to poverty.
It is easy to forget a kindness, but one remembers unkindness.
Listen with kindness for a clear explanation.
Gold is a debt we can repay, but kindness not till our dying day.
Kindness can pluck the whiskers of a lion.
Kindness will never be wasted in any way.
One kindness is the price of another.
Kindness brings happiness.
The seagull thinks it is an act of kindness to give the fish a lift in the air.
The best memory is that which forgets nothing, but injuries. Write kindness in marble and write injuries in the dust.
Honesty and kindness enhance every beauty.
one ill behaviour may cause others to forget the kindness we've done.
A word of kindness is better than a bottle of vodka.
How quickly with all is a kindness forgotten!
Stupidity closes the doors of kindness.
Acts of kindness may soon be forgotten, but the memory of an offense remains.
Kindness does not go rotten.
Better do a kindness near home than go far to burn incense.
A forced kindness deserves no thanks.
He that asketh a courtesy promiseth a kindness.
One kindness is the price of another.
Kindness breaks no bones.
Kindness begets kindness.
Kindness comes o will, it canna be coft.
Nothing grows old sooner than a kindness.
A kindness bestowed on the good is never thrown away.
No thanks attach to a kindness long deferred.
He who has received a kindness forgets it; he who has been injured remembers it.
He suffocates me with kindness.
Kindness, like a boomerang, always returns.
Kindness is greater than law.
May you have kindness in your heart, a plump woman in your furs, and seal meat in you larder.
If you show a rich man kindness, you gain nothing.
It is the kindness, and not the harshness, in the headmaster's voice that pushes tough boys to cry.
Better to kiss an ugly woman than to lick yourself.
The hand you cannot bite, kiss.
Do not correct with a strike that which can be taught with a kiss.
An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.
Waiting is futile for whomever wants to kiss someone's backside.
He is a fool that kisseth the maid when he may kiss the mistress.
When you cannot bite a hand, kiss it.
He who wipes the child's nose, means to kiss the mother's cheek.
If you can kiss the mistress, never kiss the maid.
Many kiss the hand they would gladly see cut off.
A kiss without a moustache is like beef without mustard.
If you want the daughter, you must kiss the mother.
Kiss the hand that you cannot bite.
Without money you can neither hug nor kiss.
Better a slap from a wise man than a kiss from a fool.
Better an honest slap in the face than an insincere kiss.
A kiss without a beard is like an egg without salt.
Do not make me kiss, and you will not make me sin.
You have to kiss a lot of toads before you find a handsome prince.
A husband and wife often fight intensely at one moment and then kiss intensely at the next moment.
An apple-pie without some cheese is like a kiss without a squeeze.
To kiss the child is to kiss the mother.
Kiss the hand you can not cut.
Don't let a fool kiss you no let a kiss fool you.
You have to kiss a lot of toads before you find a handsome prince.
Better to kiss a knave than be troubled with him.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present; a kiss to greet the future.
Kiss the hand of your enemy if you cannot chop it off: envy has no rest.
Many kiss the child for the nurse's sake.
The tall one wouldn't bend; the short one wouldn't stretch and the kiss was lost.
Many kiss the hand they wish cut off.
A kiss without a hug is like a flower without the fragrance.
Don't kiss blacksmith's daughter.
Better a slap from your friend than a kiss from your enemy.
You should kiss the hand that you can't bend.
Demand a kiss from a fat woman, and be ready to receive a sweet taste.
Plough wet or dry, and you will not have to kiss your neighbour's breech.
Keep it simple, stupid. (KISS)
Do not make me kiss and you will not make me sin.
There is often a barb behind a kiss.
To protest and knock one's head against the wall is what everybody can do.
Knock on wood.
To sit by the ring and tell the man inside, 'knock him down.'
You must knock a long while against an alder-bush before you get a swarm of bees out of it.
If it's in your way, knock it down.
Knock on the sky and Listen to the sound.
The man whose conscience is clear will never fear a knock on the door at midnight.
If you knock your head against a wall, then a coconut tree and pillar and your head still remains undamaged my child, go and hide that head of yours; it is a good head.
Don't knock at a dead man's door and expect an answer.
When a door opens not to your knock, consider your reputation.
If begging should unfortunately be thy lot, knock at the large gates only.
We knock in jest, and it is opened in earnest.
It is useless to knock at the door of a deaf man.
Death does not knock on the door.
You always knock yourself on the tenderest places.
Who gives what he has before he is dead, take a mallet and knock that fool on the head.
When you go to a strange house knock at the door.
If opportunity doesn't knock build a door.
Before you marry, beware, for it is a knot difficult to untie.
Marriage is not a tight knot, but a slip knot.
There is bound to be a knot in a very long string.
Don't use your teeth when you can untie the knot with your fingers.
The stitch is lost unless the thread be knotted.
Who doesn't make a knot at the end of the thread, loses the stitch more than once.
His word is as good as a tied knot.
The knot tied by a wiseman cannot be undone by a fool.
It is impossible to tie a knot without the thumb.
He seeks a knot even on the rush.
The tailor that makes not a knot loses a stitch.
To a hard knot a hard wedge.
A hard knot requires a hard wedge.
Knowing where Abraham gets the mustard.
Knowing of the hat and the brim.
Thinking is very far from knowing.
The egg will be more knowing than the hen.
Thinking is not knowing.
Until death there is no knowing what may befal.
Through being too knowing the fox lost his tail.
Asking is the sister of knowing.
True courage is knowing how to suffer.
There is no shame in not knowing; the shame lies in not finding out.
Discretion is knowing how to hide that which we cannot remedy.
No one is worse, for knowing the worst of themselves.
Better to walk without knowing where than to sit doing nothing.
Virtue is not knowing but doing.
You can only endure the weaknesses of others by knowing your own. Flattery is the best persuader.
The turtle lays thousands of eggs without anyone knowing, but when the hen lays an egg, the whole country is informed.
Brooding may be very far from knowing.
Can't have a family fuss without the whole town knowing about it.
Without knowing a person we must not hate him.
Without knowing a way thoroughly at day time, never attempt to pass it at night.
The fox is knowing, but more knowing he who catches him.
Like stepping into the water without knowing its depth.
Knowing but not telling it is what kills old men. Hearing but not heeding it is what kills young men.
Knowing hens lay even in nettles.
Don't wade into a river without knowing a ford.
An agreement is a kind of debt.
There is no fool who has not his own kind of sense.
A kind word never broke anyone's mouth.
The worst kind of poverty is to have many debts.
There are forty kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense.
If you are kind to the cruel, you will be cruel to the kind.
Indifference is a generous kind of intolerance.
Kind hearts are better than fair faces.
There are 40 kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense.
It is better to be kind to our neighbors than to cross the world to offer incense to our ancestors.
Envy is a kind of praise.
Kind words don't wear out the tongue.
Be kind to those that meet you as you rise, you may pass them again as you fall.
Big men are not the only kind that can reap a harvest.
Better the first of its kind than the last.
Whatever kind of word thou speakest, the like shalt thou bear.
If we let people see that kind of thing, there would never again be any war.
He who does kind deeds becomes rich.
A kind word warms a man through three winters.
There is an herb for every kind of sickness but not for death.
All kind of fish eat man, only shark get blame.
Show me your wife and I will tell you what kind of a husband she has.
Every kind of animal can be tamed, but not the tongue of man.
There are seven different kind of weather in one autumn night.
Kind words conquer.
He that is unkind to his own will not be kind to others.
Ingratitude is a kind of weakness; the clever are never ungrateful.
One naturally prefers one's own kind.
No matter how hidden a force is, it will attract some kind of resistance.
Kind words are worth much and they cost little.
A well educated man always has a kind word to say about the place where he spends the night.
Every kind of wood is grey when they are reduced to ashes.
A kind word warms for three winters.
The best kind of closed door is the one you can leave unlocked.
Better be kind at home than burn incense in a far place.
One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in debt to those who are kind.
No matter how kind a man might be he cannot accept to share his wife.
Debt is the worst kind of poverty.
Speak kind words and you will hear kind answers.
A kind speech and forgiveness is better than alms followed by injury.
A kind word can attract even the snake from his nest.
Kind words and few are a woman's ornament.
Better a good cow than a cow of a good kind.
Extravagant offers are a kind of denial.
The kind man feeds his cat before sitting down to dinner.
Bannaks is better nor na kind of bread.
Kind words will unlock an iron door.
Every kind of love is love, but self-love is supreme among them.
Kind master, give me hay for all of April.
Kind words will get a snake out of its hole.
Love is a kind of military service.
What kind of a scribe is a scribe who does not know Sumerian?
What kind of parents, such children.
A single kind word keeps one warm for three winters.
A well educated man always has a kind word to say about the place.
Envy is a kind of praise.
Be kind to the debtor and he becomes the creditor.
I know entirely what kind of person you are.
Kind words conquer.
The worst kind of person is one whose power of speech is greater than his power of thought.
Kind words go a long way.
Even a cat appreciates kind word[s].
To kill two birds with one stone.
The stick that breaks the window does not kill a dog.
It's hard to kill a bad thing.
You can kill a dog more way than by choking it with butter.
Neither handsome enough to kill nor ugly enough to frighten away.
Many dogs kill a hare, no matter how many turns it makes.
Do not draw your sword to kill a fly.
Kill your anger while it is small.
Judges and physicians kill with impunity.
Just because he harmed your goat, do not go out and kill his bull.
A heavy burden does not kill on the day it is carried.
Because a man has injured your goat, do not go out and kill his bull.
If it does not kill you, it will bring you happiness.
You can't kill a dog just to save a cat's tail.
You don't kill a gypsy by cutting him in ten pieces -- you only make ten more gypsies.
One little arrow does not kill a serpent.
Never kill the cat that cries.
One thumb alone does not kill a louse.
Sorrow doesn't kill - reckless joy does.
In trying to straighten the horns you kill the ox.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
The witch kills "he ate and he did not give me”, but she does not kill, "he gave me too little.”.
At a hunting expedition you cannot apportion the meat before you kill the animal.
If your time ain't come not even a doctor can kill you.
Drink and frankfurters for a dime; kill a man before his time.
That which does not kill you, makes you stronger.
Kill not the goose that laid the golden egg.
Kill no more than you can salt, or you will have tainted meat.
He that dallies with his enemy gives him leave to kill him.
It is possible for a ram to kill a butcher.
On Saint Thomas the Divine kill all turkeys, geese and swine.
One wolf does not kill another.
Don't poison someone whom you can kill with sweets.
What doesn't kill, hardens.
A bad wound may heal, but a bad name will kill.
When will the goat be strong enough to kill a leopard.
When a miser dies, the heirs feel as happy as when they kill a pig.
You must kill the spider to get rid of the cobweb.
Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it does make you sweat a lot.
You nebber see pop-gun kill alligator.
Threats don't kill.
Don't kill the man at the count's desire.
One finger alone cannot even kill a louse.
One finger alone cannot kill even a louse.
The whole arena tells them to kill the bull, yet the bull should kill no one.
When the hen steps on the feet of her chicken, she does not mean to kill them.
Never kill a man who says nothing.
If a young man is not prudent in seeking what killed his father, what killed his father may also kill him.
Whichever son is able should bury his father. The first son did not kill him.
Do not kill an animal unless you intened to eat it.
Klingons kill for their own purposes.
Words can kill before arms.
The medicine that cures the tailor can kill the shoemaker.
Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it will make you sweat a lot.
The hyena does not forget where it has hidden its kill.
That which you do not need will kill you.
What don't kill does fatten.
If you kill a little hippopotamus, you also kill his mother.
As the lion said, ‘I will kill your lambs and you will remember my presence.'
A wepon which you don't have in hand wont kill a snake.
One finger canot kill a louse.
You cannot kill an elephant with bullets of wax.
Kill a hen to get the egg.
Kill one to warn a hundred.
Kill the chicken to frighten the monkey.
Kill two vultures with one arrow.
Kill a chicken before a monkey.
You can kill a man's identity on earth but you cannot kill is spirit.
A worm cannot kill a fly.
If an insect as ever bit you when you see it, you kill it or run away.
Roaring lions kill no prey.
If you kill time, you'll bury opportunities.
It is possible to kill a man but it is impossible to kill his name.
A weapon which you don't have in your hand won't kill a snake.
Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?
There are more ways to kill a dog than by choking him on peanut butter.
The best way to kill time is to work it to death.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
Fresh pork and new wine kill a man before his time.
Stupidity won't kill you, but it can make you sweat.
If you want to kill a snake, chop off its head.
It takes a good many mice to kill a cat.
You should never stop the plough to kill a mouse.
When the ox falls, there are many that will help to kill him.
When out to kill a fly, don't roll out a cannon to accomplish it.
Justice is better than admiration If you are going to kill, then kill an elephant; if you are going to steal make sure it's a treasure.
Two dogs can kill a lion.
If someone is coming to kill you, get up early and kill him first.
The thief that is not caught is a king.
Hunger is a bigger master than the king.
In love beggar and king are equal.
A man without a child is a king without sorrows.
A cat may look at a king.
When a king has good counselors, his reign is peaceful.
At the end of the game the king and the pawn go into the same bag.
Every man is the king of his own beard.
If he hasn't seen her/his father, he would claim to be a king.
At the end of the game, the pawn and the king go back in the same box.
Where there are no hounds the fox is king.
When a king is about to lose his power his orders burn more intensely than fire.
Fidelity in a king, promise in men.
You can be a king, if you are brave.
You fail if you're afraid. Or brave, you may become a king.
The king inherits a country - the people only hard work.
When the king reigns it is thanks to the people; when a river sings it's thanks to the stones.
A canoe does not know who is king. When it turns over, everyone gets wet.
The bone given to you by the king is meat.
The night is the king of the shadows.
A big chair does not make a king.
The multitude is stronger than the king.
Hunger is felt by a slave and hunger is felt by a king.
When there are no great tigers in the deep mountains, even a monkey can become king.
Don't be a thief and won't fear the king.
The lion may be king of the jungle but he knows, he shouldn't stand in the way of the elephant.
An illiterate king is a crowned ass.
Breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dine like a pauper.
A good soldier has only three things to think about; the king, God, and nothing.
One should be born either a king or a fool.
The king cannot always rule as he wishes.
Wisdom is what makes a poor man a king, a weak person powerful, a good generation of a bad one, a foolish man reasonable.
Would you have me serve you, good king, give me the means of living.
As the king lives, so live his vassals.
The king of the bees has no sting.
Like king, like law; like law, like people.
The one-eyes is a king in the land of the blind.
It befits the king to be liberal, for he is sure of never falling into poverty.
I am king, you a king: who is to fetch the water?
He who works as a slave, eats as a king.
After the game, the King and the pawn go into the same box.
Drink water like an ox, wine like the king of Spain.
In a world of blind people, a one-eyed man is king.
Once the game is over, the king and the pawn go back into the same box.
Better a free bird than a king in captivity.
One-eye man a king a blind country.
Known by three; known by the king.
Even the king saves his money.
If you wish to know what a man is, make him king.
Fortune is round; it makes one a king, another a dunghill.
In the land of the blind, one-eye is king.
The silence of the people is a warning for the king.
The best company must part, as king dagobert said to his hounds.
About the King and the Inquisition, hush!
Every law is broken to become a king.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
A king for a moment, and a beggar soon after.
So shall she charm that thou shalt not heed the council, or words of the king.
To love the king is not bad, but a king who loves you is better.
Steal goods and you'll go to prison, steal lands and you are a king.
When a king makes a mistake, all the people suffer.
Better a live beggar than a dead king.
Anyone can be polite to a king, but it takes a gentleman to be polite to a beggar.
The time to slap a king is the time when a fly touches on his cheek.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
To love a king is not bad, but a king who loves you is better.
A dog will not follow its owner to follow a king.
Hunger is felt by a slave, and hunger is felt by a king.
If wisdom is measured by the size of the beard then the goat is a philosopher king.
No matter how high the vulture may choose to soar, the eagle will remain king of the sky.
Crowning a clown won't make him a king.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
Ye should be a king of your word.
An unjust king is like a river without water.
If the king says that it is night in the middle of the day, look up at the stars.
The one-eyed is a king among the blind.
The king of the dreamers lies in the hospital.
Give unto the king what is the king's, and unto God what is God's.
He who can follow his own will is a king.
With a king it is the same as with fire - stay neither close by, nor too far away.
Every one is a king in his own house.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is a king.
Three are powerful: the Pope, the king, and the man who has nothing.
He who esteems none but himself is as happy as a king.
A king of Whitsuntide.
Among the blind the one-eyed is the king.
The king is dead. Long live the King.
Where nothing is, the king must lose his right.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
Who sieves too much keeps the rubbish.
Experience keeps a dear school.
The portion that a man keeps for himself is usually not the smallest.
She who keeps losing children doesn't invent names anymore.
One who keeps saying 'I will listen and obey' will be cooked with the corn cob.
Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old.
he keeps her/his face red with slaps.
He who keeps his mouth shut, dies without confession.
God keeps those safe who keep themselves safe.
One sword keeps another in its scabbard.
A person with a wound on his head keeps touching it.
As long as the mouse keeps still you can be sure that the cat stays on guard.
Happiness rarely keeps company with an empty stomach.
Wealth belongs to the person who enjoys it and not to the one who keeps it.
A benevolent man should allow a few faults in himself to keeps his friends in countenance.
Perhaps no one has a finer command of a language than he who keeps his mouth shut.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
He that keeps out of harm's way will gather goodly riches.
Who makes friends of all, keeps none.
He who sleeps along keeps long cold, two soon warm each other.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
Mother's truth keeps constant youth.
A wise head keeps a shut mouth.
A narrow neck keeps the bottle from being emptied in one swig.
He who keeps his old clothes, gains new ones too.
To sell honey to one who keeps hives.
The key at the girdle keeps me good and my neighbour too.
Tell your friends a lie; if he keeps it secret tell him the truth.
He keeps his road well enough who gets rid of bad company.
He that keeps another man's dog shall have nothing left him but the line.
One knife keeps another in its sheath.
A fool gives full vent to his anger, but a wise man keeps himself under control.
Even a fool is thought wise if he keeps silent, and discerning if he holds his tongue.
Who keeps company with a wolf will learn to howl.
Never trust the man who tells you all his troubles but keeps from you all his joys.
Don't trust someone who tells you all of his troubles and keeps you from all of his joys.
Greed keeps men forever poor, even the abundance of this world will not make them rich.
It is one word of advice that one needs to give to a wise man, and that word keeps multiplying in his mind.
The old man looks death in the eye, the young man keeps him behind his back.
Even a stupid one seems wise if he keeps his mouth shut.
If he keeps on imitating everybody the monkey will one day cut his own throat.
He keeps his word, as the sun keeps butter.
It is bread that keeps one warm, not fur.
He who keeps a secret prevents much mischief.
The mother keeps on caring for her daughter while the daughter keeps on craving for her husband.
The caribou feeds the wolf, but it is the wolf who keeps the caribou strong.
One fire brand after another keeps fire burning.
An old man always keeps something in reserve.
One who keeps silent, endures.
Whoever keeps his door locked all the time longs for it to be broken down.
If you want to know someone's character, look at the friends he keeps.
A talkative person is a traveller when he is tired, he keeps quiet.
A girl's patience can only be recognised by how long she keeps her virginity.
Death keeps no calendar.
Industry keeps the body healthy, . . . and the purse full.
The wise man keeps his own counsel.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away--if you have good aim.
A cat with a straw tail keeps away from fire.
Death keeps no calendar.
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
You can judge a man by the company he keeps.
The sword keeps the peace of the land.
The wind keeps not always in one quarter.
A woman keeps secret only what she does not know.
A person is known by the company he keeps.
A shut mouth keeps me out of strife.
He who buys by the pennyworth keeps his own house and other men's too.
The cat also likes fish but keeps away from water.
He keeps silent, like a deaf pig in the wheat-field.
He keeps two irons in the fire.
Fear keeps the garden better than the gardener.
The spirit that keeps one going when one has no choice of what else to do must not be mistaken for valor.
The river may dry up but she keeps her name.
He that keeps not his arms in time of peace will have none in time of war.
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
The lawsuit of a fool keeps the court all day.
The fear keeps your house poor.
Death keeps no almanack.
What the sober man keeps in his heart, is on the tongue of the drunkard.
The mule long keeps a kick in reserve for its master.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
A good life, they say, keeps wrinkles at bay.
Tell your friend a lie -- and if he keeps it a secret, tell him the truth.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
He keeps watch over a good castle who has guarded his own constitution.
Dogs bark, but the caravan keeps on.
The tongue that belongs to a fake friend is sharper than a knife.
A bad knife cuts one's finger instead of the stick.
A kitchen knife cannot carve its own handle.
A hunter's knife cannot carve its own handle.
No matter how sharp it is, a knife will never cut it's own handle.
All are not cooks who wear long knives.
When you take a knife away from a child, give him a piece of wood instead.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
A false friend's tongue is sharper than a knife.
As the camel falls to its knees, more knives are drawn.
Do not yell "dinner” until your knife is in the loaf.
Fools and knives require good handling.
A knife does not know who is its master.
Even if a knife is made of silver, a person won't stab his own heart with it.
Whether the knife falls on the melon or the melon on the knife, the melon suffers.
He makes a hundred knives, none of which has a handle.
They are not all cooks who carry long knives.
One knife keeps another in its sheath.
A woman's tongue is a double edged knife.
A child who fears beating, would never admit that he played with a missing knife.
The calf isn't even born yet and there he is sharpening his carving knife.
Only the knife knows the heart of a pineapple.
Even the devil himself does not know where women sharpen their knives.
He who licks knives will soon cut his tongue.
The fool cuts himself with his own knife.
All are not cooks that walk with long knives.
A knife wound heals; a wound caused by words does not.
When you are pepper, I am mustard; when thou art a needle, I am a knife.
Wounds from the knife are healed, but not those from the tongue.
An angry word is like striking with a knife.
A sharp knife is nothing without a sharp eye.
A knife does not fear thorns, a woman fears man.
A knife does not recognise its owner.
The mother is she who catches the knife by the blade.
To start a fight, one does not bring a knife that cuts but a needle that sews.
A knife and a shaving-knife are alike.
Man must be sharpened on man, like knife on stone.
A mountain of knives and a sea of fire.
What is in the yams that a knife doesn't know.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
The knife that has been lent, never comes back alone.
No matter how sharp a knife is, it can never cut its handle.
Only a knife can best tell a child when to leave it.
Teaching a monkey to eat with a fork and knife will never make it a man.
The knife of the family does not cut.
All are not cooks who carry long knives.
He who pulls out a knife, by knife shall die.
He would not give the devil a knife to cut his throat.
One knife whets another.
He likes it, as a goat likes the knife, that kills him.
The butcher looked for his knife and it was in his mouth.
A man without a knife, is a man without a life.
When the ox is at the slaughterhouse everyone comes running with their knives.
The whetstone in a village does no blunt the knife.
The blessed knife eats of the meat of the ‘kinandu'.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
Marriages sealed with rings end with drawn knives.
God made hands before knives.
To engage in conflict, one does not bring a knife that cuts -but a needle that sews.
Be careful of what you say as it can hurt more than a knife.
You do not drink soup with a knife.
Wounds from the knife are healed, but not those from the tongue.
Looks like throwing knives.
From where gets the blacksmith the knife?
Stop that man, he's got my knife in the back!
You are sharp on one side like a knife.
As the camel falls to its knees, more knives are drawn.
The blessed knife eats of the meat of the 'kinandu'.
Honey in his mouth, knives in his heart.
Sharpening a knife does not frighten a horse.
Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork.
One knife whets another.
His pocket knife opens in my pocket.
The tongue of a bad friend cuts more than a knife.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
What is inside a package is known only to its owner.
A good archer is not known by his arrows, but his aim.
Comfort is not known if poverty does not come before it.
Allah preserve us from ‘If only I'd known!'.
A secret between two is god's secret; a secret between three is known to all.
The weight of the burden is known only by he who caries it.
A bull is not known in two herds.
Good perfume is known by its scent rather than by the perfumer's advertisement.
A bird is known by his note and a man by his talk.
A man is known to be mortal by two things, sleep and lust.
When the reason is known, there will be no more shock.
Had I known is a poor man.
A disease known is half cured.
It is not a secret if it is known by three people.
About evening a man is known.
A friend's fault should be known but not abhorred.
Friends are known in adversity.
A friend is not known till he is lost.
Beware of "Had I but known.”.
The good seaman is known in bad weather.
By their marks the bales are known.
When a man loses his prestige, he does not regain it by going to where he is not known.
The advice of a woman ends with "Oh, if I had only known!"
Known by three; known by the king.
A man in not known till he cometh to honour.
A bird may be known by its flight.
It's better to be known as a rascal than a fool.
Better suffer a known evil than change for uncertain good.
Good millet is known at the harvest.
The hypocrite is known by his actions, not by his clothes.
We will be known by the tracks we leave behind.
If you wish your merit to be known, acknowledge that of other people.
The gun catridge-belt of akowua has never been known to lack bullets.
The customers are known to the shopkeepers.
Good millet is known at the harvest.
Better to be known as a sinner than a hypocrite.
A man is known by the company he avoids.
The Iabour of childbirth is known to the mother.
Had you known what bees eat, you would not have tasted the honey.
A tree is known by its fruit.
Good millet is known at the harvest.
A disease known is half cured.
A man is known by his friends.
A friend cannot be known in prosperity nor an enemy be hidden in adversity.
You may poke a man's fire after you've known him for seven years.
The tree is known by its fruit.
The bird is known by his note, the man by his words.
Beware of Beware of "Had I known”.
A bird may be known by its song.
A known mistake is better than an unknown truth.
A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
A friend is known when needed.
Fixing the known is better than waiting for the unknown.
Better is the evil known than the good which is yet to know.
A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair.
It is no use hiding from a friend what is known to an enemy.
What three know will soon be known to thirty.
A person is known by the company he keeps.
The workman is known by his work.
The lion is known by his claws.
Friends are known in time of need.
He is well known as bad money.
A disease known is half cured.
A friend is not known but in need.
A mouse that removes the palm-nut that turns out to be the bait of a trap, would already have known that the palm-nut does not ripen on the ground.
With the hammer's blows the defects become known.
The tree is known by its fruit.
The workman is known by his work.
Friends are known in time of need.
Tell no one what you would have known only to yourself.
The worth of a thing is best known by the want.
A friend is known in time of need.
The meaning is best known to the speaker.
In the end it will be known who ate the bacon.
The wine is not known by the hoops.
Many are esteemed, only because they are not known.
The brave is known by his fame.
Men can acquire knowledge, but not wisdom. Some of the greatest fools ever known were learned men.
Let them whip me in the market-place, provided it be not known at home.
They may whip me in the market-place, so it be not known at home.
As the tree is known by its fruit, so is the wicked man by his deeds.
It is soon known which trees will bear fruit.
A carpenter is known by his chips.
A workman is known by his chips.
A fool may be known by six things anger, without cause speech, without profit change, without progress inquiry, without object putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
The ignorant think the Self can be known by the intellect, but the illumined know he is beyond the duality of the knower and the known.
The lion is known by the scratch of his claws.
To be without knowledge is to be without light.
Doubt is the key to knowledge.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
Knowledge is like a garden: if it is not cultivated, it cannot be harvested.
Knowledge is better than riches.
Keep learning because knowledge is the key to power.
Knowledge has bitter roots but sweet fruits.
Better than the young man's knowledge is the old man's experience.
If you want to gather a lot of knowledge, act as if you are ignorant.
Angels bend down their wings to a seeker of knowledge.
Knowledge is not the main thing, but deeds.
Knowledge without practice makes but half an artist.
You have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you.
Knowledge without wisdom is a load of books on the back of an ass.
Lack of knowledge is darker than night.
Repetition is the mother of knowledge.
Knowledge is proud that he knows so much; wisdom is humble that he knows no more.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
Doubt is the key to all knowledge.
Without knowledge, without sin.
If Only youth had knowledge and old age ability.
The man of sense does not hang up his knowledge.
An ounce of discretion is better than a pound of knowledge.
The virtue of silence is a great piece of knowledge.
Adversity brings knowledge, and knowledge wisdom.
The best knowledge is to know yourself.
The strength of a nation is its knowledge.
Knowledge is gained in many schools.
All knowledge is not taught in one school.
Literally: Go out for a day, get a full basket of knowledge.
Knowledge is like a lion; it cannot be gently embraced.
God sells knowledge for labour, honour for risk.
He has a ton of knowledge, but the bottom is out.
Learn thou of learned men, th' unlearned of thee; for thus must knowledge propagated be.
There is only one good - knowledge; there is only one evil - ignorance.
Don't talk too much, because your ignorance is greater than your knowledge.
God grant you good fortune, my son, for knowledge avails you little.
Don't talk too much-your ignorance exceeds your knowledge.
Knowledge that is not used is abused.
Among the ignorant a little knowledge is of great value.
Beware of the vulcan greed for knowledge.
With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping.
He who lacks knowledge derides his neighbor, but the man of understanding holds his tongue.
He that boasts of his own knowledge proclaims his ignorance.
Knowledge is like a garden: If it is not cultivated, it cannot be harvested.
With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping.
Having little knowledge is like having your hands tied around your neck like a slave.
No one is without knowledge except he who asks no questions.
Knowledge is better than wealth, you have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you.
Don't be stupid to replace wisdom with knowledge because you will lose understanding.
Knowledge without wisdom is like water without sand.
Him with is own knowledge know how to eat from it.
To be proud of knowledge is to be blind with light.
Knowledge conquered by labour becomes a possession.
A thimbleful of experience is worth a tubful of knowledge.
Knowledge is the sister of folly.
Zeal without knowledge is like fire without light.
Experience is the mother of knowledge.
Forgetness is the plague of knowledge.
Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave.
God sells knowledge for labour -- honour for risk.
Knowledge is power.
Ask someone else for advice but keep your knowledge to yourself.
The supreme treasure is knowledge, the middle treasure is children, and the lowest treasure is material wealth.
Knowledge is power.
He that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.
Knowledge without practice is nothing.
Knowledge is eith born about.
The knowledge of a trade is worth a handful of gold.
Knowledge is wealth that can't be stolen.
You have a raven's knowledge.
Who teaches another, acquires more knowledge.
There is no knowledge without experience.
A person who will not take advice gets knowledge when trouble overtakes him.
The scholar knows what she lacks knowledge of.
If youth but had the knowledge and old age the strength.
Men can acquire knowledge, but not wisdom. Some of the greatest fools ever known were learned men.
The old for want of ability, and the young for want of knowledge, let things be lost.
He who increases knowledge, increases sorrow.
Knowledge is power.
Ask not a saint of his caste; ask of his knowledge.
At work and knowledge is our salvation.
Patience is the mother of knowledge.
Books provide knowledge, life furnishes understanding.
Knowledge, humbles a great person, astonishes the common, and puffs up the small.
Knowledge is not necessarily wisdom.
The way of knowledge is narrow.
Honor goes to God; the priests get the bacon.
When you can't get meat, chickens and bacon are good.
He who would buy sausage of a dog must give him bacon in exchange.
He who can't get bacon, must be content with cabbage.
We are all well placed, said the cat, when she was seated on the bacon.
You catch the mice with bacon.
In the end it will be known who ate the bacon.
You cannot have the bacon and the pig at the same time.
The bacon of paradise for the married man that does not repent.
Sour wine, old bacon, and rye bread keep a house rich.
A clean pig makes lean bacon.
They look at the greens, but steal the bacon.
Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested. (Francis Bacon)
It is a strange desire to seek power and to lose liberty. (Francis Bacon)
Money is like muck, not good except it be spread. (Francis Bacon)
Nature, to be commanded, must be obeyed. (Francis Bacon)
Suspicions amongst thoughts are like bats amongst birds, they ever fly by twilight. (Francis Bacon)
Anger makes dull men witty, but it keeps them poor. (Francis Bacon)
If the hill will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet will go to the hill. (Francis Bacon)
All rising to great place is by a winding stair. (Francis Bacon)
He that talketh what he knoweth, will also talk what he knoweth not. (Francis Bacon)
"And knowledge itself, is power" (Francis Bacon, Meditationes sacrae)
Young bamboo trees are easy to bend.
Just as a bamboo cane forms a round jet of water, so taking counsel together makes men of one mind.
A tender bamboo cannot be eagerly desired for building.
By poking at a bamboo thicket, one drives out a snake.
The taller the bamboo grows, the lower it bends.
The winds may fell the massive oak, but bamboo, bent even to the ground, will spring upright after the passage of the storm.
To bend a bamboo, start when it is a shoot.
The higher the bamboo, the more it can be bent.
You can't see the whole sky through a bamboo pole.
An image of a bamboo has already been formed in mind before it is committed to the painting canvas.
You can lean on a bamboo stick, but not on a rope.
Like bamboo shoots after rain.
He was burned, so he ran into the bamboo grove, but the grove caught fire.
One bamboo does not make a forest.
He who doesn't like chattering women must stay a bachelor.
One takes care of one's own: when a bachelor roasts yam, he share's it with his sheep.
A bachelor is never sent as a go-between.
A bachelor and a dog can do anything.
A rakish bachelor makes a jealous husband.
If you search for a faultless woman, you will remain a bachelor.
Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; married, an ass.
A bachelor should always spend minimum time with a friend's wife.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away in the morning to avoid removing the ash; he will have to deal with it when he comes back.
Who would avoid all strife, should be a bachelor.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away.
Sit on the bank of a river and wait: Your enemy's corpse will soon float by.
There is one fish in the pond, and ten anglers on the bank.
Let what is on this side of the bank be washed out by the flood, and what is on that side of the bank be carried away by the wind.
Don't put robbers to work in a bank.
It is not fish until it is on the bank.
Slow water washes away the bank.
A man who lives on the bank of a river does not use spittle to wash his hands.
Speak highly of the lake, but stay on the bank.
When two friends have a common bank account, one sings and the other weeps.
Laugh all the way to the bank.
It is a wise man who lives with money in the bank, it is a fool who dies that way.
Still water undermines the bank.
Who owns the bank owns the fish.
Through thick and thin, both over bank and bush.
First bake the strudel then sit down and ponder.
God gives the wheat, He doesn't bake the bread.
As you brew, so you shall bake.
What one does not bake, another brews.
An oven whose door does not shut does not bake its loaves.
Pudden cyaa bake widout fiah.
As you brew so shall you bake.
You must contrive to bake with the flour you have.
As you bake so shall you brew.
He sleeps as dogs do when wives bake cakes.
I bake nae bread by your shins.
It is easy to bake where there is plenty of meal.
Fish or cut bait.
A fish follows the bait.
He who does not bait his hook catches nothing.
The fish does not go after the hook, but after the bait.
The fish sees the bait not the hook; a man sees not the danger - only the profit.
Hyenas are caught with stinking bait.
A big fish is caught with big bait.
If water were enough, fish would not take bait.
Bait the hook well and the fish will bite.
Let the bait hide the hook.
A mouse that removes the palm-nut that turns out to be the bait of a trap, would already have known that the palm-nut does not ripen on the ground.
Get bait while the tide is out.
It's pointless to fish if there's no bait on the hook.
It is not the hook or the rod, but the bait that lures.
Pleasure is the bait of evil.
You cannot catch a fox with a bait.
Bait the hook well and the fish will bite.
When the bait is more than the fish, 'tis time to stop fishing.
Fail to steal the chicken while it ate up your bait grain.
You need to bait the hook to catch the fish.
To bait and to grease does not retard a journey.
It is the bait that lures, not the fisherman or the rod.
A barber learns to shave by shaving fools.
The barber learns his trade on the orphan's chin.
On poor people's beards the young barber learns his trade.
Softly, barber, the water scalds.
Never ask a barber if you need a haircut.
A barber does not shave himself.
Even the high and noble bow before the barber.
A barber does not shave himself.
The barber learns to shave on the orphan's face.
On a fool's beard the barber learns to shave.
One barber shears another.
The bad barber leaves neither hair nor skin.
Even without drumbeats, the banana leaves dance.
If the banana pest doesn't die it will always reach at the ripe banana.
Man is like a banana: when he leaves the bunch, he gets skinned.
An old banana leaf was once young and green.
A wife is like clothes and banana plant needs weeding.
When a monkey doesn't get a banana, he eats chillies.
A woman is like a banana; one alone can turn the whole bunch rotten.
Every fresh banana leaf should eventually become a dry banana leaf.
When bad luck chooses you as a companion, even a ripe banana can remove your teeth.
The woman who gives birth to a child is like the banana tree that breaks under the weight of its fruit.
Even without drumbeats, the banana leaves dance.
The banana looks withered, but it has an excellent flavor.
Empty barrels and insignificant people always make the most noise.
When the olive tree blooms during April, olives are harvested with barrels, when it blossoms in June, they are harvested in handfuls.
Two barrels of tears will not heal a bruise.
Empty barrels give the most sound.
Empty barrels rattle the most.
Empty barrels make the most noise.
If the olive trees blossom in April, you'll have enough to collect them with barrels; if they bud in May, you'll have enough to fill a small measure; but if as late as June, you'll only be collecting handfuls.
If you prune in April you'll fill your barrels not with wine, but with water.
It may be said that noisy barrels are easier to carry.
Not every ball hits.
He who throws the ball, must expect it back.
He that plays at racket must watch the ball.
If this ball does not stick to the wall it will at least leave a mark.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, yet 'twill leave some mark.
A man who touches the bottom of a soup plate with a ball of foofoo is no longer searching for soup.
Tread on the ball, live to spend all.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, it will at least leave a mark.
Even a ball of wool has a beginning.
The ball always looks for the best player.
An empty barrel makes the most noise.
You can't build a barrel round a bung hole.
The barrel can only yield the wine that's in it.
A spoonful of tar in a barrel of honey.
A barrel that contains the wine will retain the drop in its staves.
An empty barrel sounds better.
An empty barrel sings in the wind.
In this world a pint of sweetness and a barrel of bitterness.
Marriage is a lick of honey and a barrel of bitter.
No put youself in a barrel when match box can hol you.
A little bit of experience is better than a barrel full of knowledge.
More flies are caught with a spoonful of syrup than with a barrel full of vinegar.
There is plenty of sound in an empty barrel.
An empty barrel rattles louder.
Black people must stop acting like crabs in a barrel and work together.
One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel.
More flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
Empty barrel rumbles the most.
The world is a barrel, for all to draw from.
An empty barrel makes the greatest sound.
One rotten apple will spoil the whole barrel. or One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
Tales came like out of the barrel of a machine gun.
It's hard to take britches off bare hips.
'tis too late to spare when the cask is bare.
It is better to wear mended clothes than being without clothes or bare.
Bare is brotherless back.
'tis too late to spare, when the bottom is bare.
‘Tis too late to spare when the pocket is bare.
We do not use our bare feet to search for hidden thorns which we have seen in day time.
Catch a tiger with bare hands.
Who can't bite should not bare his teeth.
Long sleep makes a bare back.
There goes more to marriage than four bare legs in a bed.
Better a bare foot than none.
None more bare than the shoemaker's wife and the smith's mare.
All are not maidens that wears bare hair.
There belongs mair to a bed nor four bare leggs.
Hair, and hair, makes the Carles head bare.
Bare gentry are braging and beggars.
Ken when to spend and when to spare, and ye needna be busy, and ye'll ne'er be bare.
But now I was a rich man, three things have left me bare; dice, wine, and women, these three have made me poor.
Who goes more bare than the shoemaker's wife and the smith's mare.
Bare is a brotherless behind.
It is a bare Moor that he goes over, and gets not a Cow.
Don't close the barn door after the horse runs away.
A cold April the barn will fill.
A little and a little, collected together, becomes a great deal; the heap in the barn consists of single grains, and drop and rop makes an inundation.
An empty barn needs no roof.
A home without a woman is like a barn without cattle.
Couldn't hit the broad side of the barn.
There's no use in closing the barn door after the horse is stolen.
He who sows peas on the highway does not get all the pods into his barn.
No house without a mouse, no barn without corn, no rose without a thorn.
A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat.
Don't shut the barn door after the horse is stolen.
He who sows the seed of discord works in the devil's barn.
Put a beggar into your barn and he will make himself your heir.
It's the same to the sauna if the drying barn burns.
The cradle is rocked but the baby is pinched.
The baby has not been born yet, and yet you assert that his nose is like his grandfather's.
The baby is not yet born, and yet you say that his nose is like his grandfather's.
A newborn baby has no fear of tigers.
Love is like a baby: it needs to be treated tenderly.
The baby who doesn't cry isn't nursed.
A baby that does not cry will die on its mother's back.
A weaning baby that does not cry aloud, will die on its mothers back.
It is the soil that knows that the mouse's baby is ill.
The unborn baby that fears criticism will never be born.
You cannot hear a baby cry in the mother's womb.
It takes nine months to have a baby, no matter how many people you put on the job.
Don't throw out the baby with the bath water.
A mother never thinks her baby is ugly.
If the knitter is weary, the baby will have no new bonnet.
A hundred-year-old revenge still has its baby teeth.
A baby is an angel whose wings decrease as his legs increase.
The mouse is silent while laboring, but when the baby is conceived, she cries.
If a baby crawls up to me and pinches me, I will get on my knees and pinch him back.
The baby nursed by its grandmother can never be corrected.
The baby that refuses its mother's breast, will never be full.
A baby cannot be heard crying in his mother's womb.
Throw the baby out with the bath water.
A baby on its mother's back doesn't know the journey is long.
Love is like a baby; it needs to be treated tenderly.
The baby who always gets carried will never learn to walk.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
Тоо many midwives deliver a sickly baby.
The hyena does not eat its baby, and you know how insatiable it is.
The fed baby plays on its mother's bed.
You're just like a baby; one never knows what comes and when it comes.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby. (Strauss 1994, p. 683)
Love is stronger than any addiction, baby. Hell, it is one. - Madea.
The hyena does not eat its baby, and you know how insatiable it is.
A woman who delivers a baby in the market square has nothing to hide.
A weaning baby that does not cry aloud will die on its mothers back.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
Don't upset the apple cart.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby.
The baby that refuses its mother's breast, will never be full.
There was already twenty in the family, so my grandmother had a baby.
Base terms are bellows to a slackening fire.
You can't steal second base with your foot on first.
A masquerade does not perform to an outside audience until he performs well at the home base.
The base of a lighthouse is dark.
It is a base thing to tear a dead lion's beard off.
If the tree doesn't bear fruit, cut it off at the base.
What is useful cannot be base.
The good fortunes of life fall to the lot even of the base.
Diligence are the base for intelligence.
Don't throw out the baby with the bath water.
Throw the baby out with the bath water.
A bath refreshes the body, tea refreshes the mind.
Throw not the child out with the bath.
Don't even take a bath with fools, because they'll throw away the soap.
A sauna makes a woman most beautiful one hour after the bath.
Who enters the Turkish bath will sweat.
The one who enters the Turkish bath must never turn his back on a Greek.
The bath has sworn not to whiten the blackamoor.
Don't empty the baby out with the bath water.
Bathe her and then look at her.
If you are going to bathe, get thoroughly wet.
If you take of your clothes for water you must bathe.
A person who does not bathe, must know it of himself that he is dirty.
Do not bathe if there is no water.
Do not bathe if there is no water.
Bathe other people's children but don't wash behind their ears.
When your enemies attack, bathe in their blood.
Bathe early every day and sickness will avoid you.
The doctor must heal his own bald head.
The blind man is laughing at the bald head.
Experience is the comb that nature gives us when we are bald.
When a single hair has fallen from your head, you are not yet bald.
The bald woman boasts of her sister's hair.
How good at combing is the bald priest.
Ever one hair, only one, and the man is bald at last.
Wisdom is a comb given to a man once he is bald.
He that is bald headed has no need of combs.
Bald people can always find a comb.
A bald man carries a comb.
Went to get wool, but returned bald.
A hundred years hence we shall all be bald.
A flea on the top of a bald head - it is only too apparent.
Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald.
He who was left by the bald is taken by the hairy.
It is not easy to pluck hairs from a bald pate.
Hair by hair and the head gets bald.
If the bald knew a remedy he would rub it on his own head.
In less than a thousand years we shall all be bald.
Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald; if you seize her by the forelock, you may hold her, but, if suffered to escape, not Jupiter himself can catch her again.
Time has a forelock, but is bald behind.
He shaves a bald head.
Was bald grünt, verdirbt bald.
Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald.
Smart bird gets trapped in its beak.
Renounce a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak.
Better to be the beak of a chicken than the rump of an ox.
The fly that bites the tortoise breaks its beak.
The laying hen says: give me feed to fill my beak and I'll give you eggs.
The bird who has always possessed a beak, does not pick up for another.
Every hooked beak is maintained by prey.
Pull out the beak and the tail gets stuck, pull out the tail and the beak gets stuck.
The kite's malady, its wings broken and its beak sound.
To clean the beak by rubbing it on the ground.
The crow blames the crow, 'though its own beak is shitty.
The hen pecks and wipes its beak.
Who sees a mote in other's eye will not see a beam in his own eye.
Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
One rotten beam can make a whole house collapse.
A single beam cannot support a great house.
No matter how big, one beam cannot support a house.
Cast the beam out of your own eye before you try to cast the mote from the eyes of your neighbour.
He can see the splinter in another's eye but cannot see even the beam in his own.
You can see a mote in another's eye, but cannot see a beam in your own.
Everyone conceals his own beam and notices the mote in other people's eyes.
Dogs understand each other by their barking, and men by their words.
The barking dog gives you no power -- it gives you fear.
Barking saves biting.
The barking of a dog does not disturb the man on a camel.
The barking of dogs does not hurt the clouds.
The barking of the dogs will not disturb the clouds.
If you listen to dogs barking, you'll go deaf and never learn much.
Barking dogs don't bite.
He that pelts every barking dog must pick up a great many stones.
A barking dog never bites.
The lion won't turn on a barking puppy.
Barking dogs don't catch hares.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
You needn't be afraid of a barking dog, but you should be afraid of a silent dog.
A barking dog was never a good biter.
The moon is not shamed by the barking of dogs.
Do not respond to a barking dog.
Conscience is the dog that can't bite, but never stops barking.
What signifies the barking of a dog that don't bite?
A barking dog was never a good hunter.
The dog that quits barking can get some sleep.
Barking of dogs cannot be heard in heaven.
If a monkey is amongst dogs, why won't it start barking?.
The barking of dogs does not reach heaven.
A barking dog does not bite.
The wolf is not afraid of the dog, but he doesn't like the sound of his barking.
Barking dogs don't bite.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Doth the moon on high care for the barking of a dog?
Pay attention when an old dog is barking.
You are barking up the wrong tree.
A barking dog seldom bites.
The wolf is not afraid of the dog, but he doesn't like the sound of his barking.
Barking follows you home.
If you don't have a brain, join the army; if you don't have rice, use beans instead.
Allah gives dried beans to eat to him who has no teeth left.
Words in conversation are like beans, one breaks them off where they are ripe.
Eat beans for lunch and have no friends at the dinner table.
Whoever seeds fava beans without using fertilizer, shouldn't count on having much to eat.
Hunger gives a relish even to raw beans.
One by one we count the beans.
Better to eat beans in peace than to eat meat in distress.
If you plant melons, you get melons; if you plant beans, you get beans.
He has beans in his ears.
Hunger makes hard beans sweet.
Hunger transmutes beans into almonds.
The stake of the play is not beans.
Superfine green beans, tomatoes and chasselas grapes.
A man could die just cultivating fava beans and the kitchen garden.
Do you want to experience real thirst? Then try eating bitter cardoons and roasted fava beans.
Who has plenty of pepper may pepper his beans.
The buyer of the rotten beans is the blind man.
Not worth a hill of beans.
Не knows how many beans make five.
Candlemas day, put beans in the clay; put candles and candlesticks away.
Hunger makes hard beans sweet.
One bean does not make a whole meal.
Hit him with a bean, he will break.
Every bean hath its black.
A girl, a vineyard and a bean field are difficult to guard.
A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison.
The bean paste that smells like bean paste is not the best quality.
A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison.
Sow fava bean and flax with confidence while you still have a full silo.
The haughty broad bean flowers and climbs but produces little fruit.
You think you are strong like the corn plant, yet the bean vine is already choking you.
Let your bargain suit your purpose.
A miser and a liar bargain quickly.
At a good bargain pause and ponder.
Life is the biggest bargain. We get it for nothing.
He who does not intend to pay is not troubled in making his bargain.
A bargain is a bargain.
A good bargain is a pick-purse.
Don't bargain for fish which are still in the water.
A clear bargain, a dear friend.
Bargain like a gypsy, but pay like a gentleman.
Life is the greatest bargain – we get it for nothing.
Beware of too great a bargain.
Necessity never made a good bargain.
A bargain is a bargain.
Make your bargain before beginning to plow.
Forever is a long bargain.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
Go to a man who is in difficulty and you'll get a bargain.
A business is good, when both parties make a good bargain.
Twa words maun gang to that bargain.
Don't bargain with God.
He that does not ask will never get a bargain.
It is a bad bargain, where both are losers.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
Spider an' fly no make bargain.
The person who does not ask will never get a bargain.
A doubtful bargain spoils the stomach.
Make your bargain before beginning to plow.
Make every bargain clear and plain, that none may afterwards complain.
Every man goes down to his death bearing in his hands only that which he has given away.
What is marriage, mother? Daughter, it is spinning, bearing children, and weeping.
Fear the Greeks bearing gifts.
In thy home be joyous and generous to guests discreet shalt thou be in thy bearing.
Don't just cross a river -- cross it bearing fire!
Don't trust the Greek bearing gifts.
Don't just cross a river–cross it bearing fire!.
Better to be born a limpet in the sea, than a load bearing donkey.
Mother, what is marrying? Spinning, bearing children, and crying, daughter.
True patience consists in bearing what is unbearable.
Better one hazel grouse in the bag, than ten on the branch.
You can only take out of a bag what was already in it.
At the end of the game the king and the pawn go into the same bag.
He gives from caliph's bag.
He started with nothing and still he has just his begging bag.
An empty bag will not stay up.
Don't be a sling bag.
He who enters Fez with a rug, leaves with a money bag.
Eggs and iron must not be in the same bag.
When the bag tears, the shoulders get a rest.
Even if the old woman has no teeth, her tiger nuts remain in her own bag.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
An American will go to hell for a bag of coffee.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand itself alone.
To buy the pig in the bag.
If you ask for too much at once, you will come home with an empty bag.
You don't buy a cat in a bag.
T'ief no love fi si t'ief carry long bag.
A poor beggar is the one who begs without a bag.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand upright.
If rubles fell from heaven the poor would have no bag.
Covetousness bursts the bag.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying a grain in a bag with a hole in it.
Who asks at once for a lot, returns home with an empty bag.
The mind is like a bag; everyone has one.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
Where people are promising much to you, bring a small bag.
Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?
There's many a good cock come out of a tattered bag.
The beggar's bag is bottomless.
Too much bursts the bag.
All's alike at the latter day: a bag of gold and wisp of hay.
Two bigs will not go in one bag.
Covetousness breaks the bag.
This bolt came never out of your bag.
Problems are in the bag.
Uncollected olives, left at random fill neither the saddle bag nor the little sack.
The piece of cloth that is in another's bag does not patch your garmet.
Love came in a paper bag, said the maiden when she got a letter from her sweetheart.
Buying a cat in a bag.
Do not rely on the label of the bag.
Where you father has been with ink, go not you with a bag.
Too much breaks the bag.
You let the cat out of the bag.
Don't say "wheat" until it's in the bag and well tied up.
Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?
The water bag drips on its carrier's flank.
Wisdom is like a good skin bag every man carries his own.
What should prevent the herring bag from having the odour of the herrings?
You can only take out of a bag what was already in it.
The rattan basket criticizes the palm-leafed bag, yet both are full of holes.
He sins as much who holds the bag as he who puts into it.
Where you father has been with ink, go not you with a bag (i.e. what your father has sold and assigned, think not to recover with a bag of papers. In other words, don't go to law for it.
Men will always lose the battle against cholera and bureaucracy.
A good beginning is half the battle.
Don't use up your arrows before you go to battle.
Using up the arrows, before getting into battle.
You need a brother, without one you're like a person rushing to battle without a weapon.
A bold onset is half the battle.
Away from the battle all are soldiers.
Of war all can tattle, away from the battle.
During the battle you cannot lend your sword to anyone.
Money wins the battle, not the long arm.
He who is well prepared has won the battle.
Go early to market and as late as you can to battle.
In a battle between elephants, the ants get squashed.
You'll know the good soldier in battle.
Fighting a losing battle.
If you must battle your enemy, hit him where it hurts him most.
A strong attack is half the battle won.
When the white man wins, it is a battle.
A man who rushes into battle does not realize that battle entails death.
When a warrior goes to a battle, he does not abandon his friends.
If the warrior's spirit has not escaped, the battle is still going on.
Only an enemy without honor refuses to show himself in battle.
Thirty-six plans of how to win the battle are not so good as one plan to withdraw from the fight.
You will never lose a battle if you know your own situation as well as that of the enemy.
A drop of sweat spent in a drill is a drop of blood saved in a battle.
The first blow is half the battle.
A good beginning is a halfway a battle won.
Never get in a battle of wits without ammunition.
When the white man wins, it is a battle.
It takes two blows to make a battle.
He who goes not into battle cannot wear a crown.
The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks, but a farmer dies of old age.
When the battle is over you make your appearance.
O, God, if there be a God, save my soul if I have a soulǃ (A soldier before the battle of Blenheim in 1704)
Life's battle don't always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
After a battle everyone is a general.
Destroying an Empire to win a war is no victory. And ending a battle to save an Empire is no defeat.
The arrogant army will lose the battle for sure.
Tomorrow's battle is won during today's practice.
When battle approaches, when war arises, the plans of the gods, beloved by the gods, are destroyed.
A good beginning is half the battle.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks.
You cannot separate water by beating it with a fork.
A fool's lips bring him strife and invite a beating.
Beating the dead is a sin.
A child who fears beating, would never admit that he played with a missing knife.
Stock-fish are made tender by much beating.
The first camel in the train holds everyone up, but it is the last which gets the beating.
The flea sinned, the reed-mat got the beating.
Beating drums is fun, but also tiring.
A bride received into the home is like a horse that you have just bought; you break her in by constantly mounting her and continually beating her.
That which is about to die doesn't hear the drum beating.
There are three things from which no good can be got without a beating: a walnut-tree, a donkey, and a shrew.
Remorse is worse than a beating.
Sparrows cannot be caught by beating a drum.
You may as well give a good beating as a bad one.
By beating love decays.
The threatener sometimes gets a beating.
After beating milk, butter is obtained.
Learning is better than becoming rich.
All things are becoming to good people.
He who laughs at a cripple will not die without becoming himself.
The smaller the lizard the greater the hope of becoming a crocodile.
It is more becoming to have a large nose than two small ones.
He who marries ill, is long in becoming widowed.
It is not becoming to play the fox, or to play up on both sides.
After becoming a thief, one becomes an outcast.
When you stay with a careless person, you end up becoming careless just like him.
A man without reason is a beast in season.
If you find the residents of a place worshipping a donkey, bring the beast some grass.
Every beast roars in its own den.
Age and wedlock tame man and beast.
They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow.
Wind from the east is good for neither man nor beast.
For a voracious beast pebbles in his feed.
The beast that goes well never wants a rider to try its paces.
When the wind is in the east, 'tis neither good for man nor beast.
Run as hard as a wild beast if you will, but you won't get any reward greater than that destined for you.
One doesn't follow a wild beast into its lair.
One doesn't follow a wild beast into its lair.
You've seen many Komo, but you haven't seen the wild beast.
The attacks of a wild beast cannot be averted with only bare hands.
Age and marriage tame man and beast.
Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns.
A solitary man is either a beast or an angel.
The beast once dead, the venom is dead.
Unskilfull mediciners and horse-marshels slayes both man and beast.
The husbands belong to the wives and hookers are for the wild beast.
There is no beast that does not roar in its den.
A good beast heats with eating.
It is not the burden but the over-burden that kills the beast.
The attack tames the beast.
He who wants to travel far takes care of his beast.
The beast that goes well is never without some one to try his paces.
There is no beast so savage but sports with its mate.
The skin of a lion covering some mongrel beast.
Music has charms to soothe the savage beast.
A man in this world without learning is as a beast of the field.
When the weather changes, the beast sneezes.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
Bad weather gets better, a bad man never does.
He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good.
Bad money is never lost.
Not to know is bad; not to wish to know is worse.
Good horses can't be of a bad color.
Not to know is bad, not to wish to know is worse.
It is better to be alone than to be in bad company.
Break the leg of a bad habit.
A bad man in Zion City is a good man in Chicago.
A pessimist, confronted with two bad choices, chooses both.
It is bad luck to fall out of a thirteenth story window on Friday.
A bad rumour flies on wings.
That smells bad, said the cat about meat that it cannot reach.
A soldier who doesn't dream of becoming a general is a bad one.
Even after a bad harvest there must be sowing.
Better to die than to live on with a bad reputation.
After bad luck comes good fortune.
Better a bad wife than an empty house.
A bad son gives his mother a bad name.
As if it weren't bad enough to fall, the ladder lands on top of you.
Bad is never good until worse happens.
A bad penny always comes back.
A good lie finds more believers than a bad truth.
He is bad that will not take advice, but he is a thousand times worse that takes every advice.
It's hard to kill a bad thing.
A man is often a bad adviser to himself and a good adviser to another.
It's bad manners to talk about ropes in the house of a man whose father was hanged.
A bad wound heals, but a bad word doesn't.
A bad knife cuts one's finger instead of the stick.
A pig on credit makes a good winter and a bad spring.
The good won't be spoiled in an inn, so the bad won't be mended in a church.
Love from someone who is bad is worse than his hatred.
Bad is the sack that will not bear patching.
Bad is the wool that cannot be died.
Chastise the good and he will mend, chastise the bad and he will grow worse.
A bad agreement is better than a good lawsuit.
Bad grass does not make good hay.
Bad news is the first to come.
Not everything, which is bad, comes to hurt us.
It is a bad plowman that quarrels with his ox.
The bad calligrapher is choosy about his brushes.
A good horse has many faults; a bad one has hardly any.
Bad news goes about in clogs, good news in stockinged feet.
Bad birds seldom bring good weather.
A bad rower blames the oar.
Need is a bad negotiator.
Many a good father has but a bad son.
A good bell is heard from far, a bad one still further.
As we grow older our bad qualities make us younger.
He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good.
An inch too short is as bad as an ell.
Anger is a bad counselor.
There's no bad without the good.
A bad peace is better than a good quarrel.
There are no bad ships at all, there are bad captains.
A bad dancer always has trouble with his balls.
Envy can breed swans from bad duck eggs.
A bad excuse is better than none.
A bad mother wishes for good children.
A bad compromise is better than a successful suit.
A bad day never hath a good night.
Be a custom good or bad, a peasant will have it continue in force.
A bad man's gift is like his master.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
The bowman who is a bad marksman has a lie ready.
He who lingers around will hear bad things spoken about him.
It's a bad start on the week for the man who is hanged on a monday.
Many things are too bad to be blessed, and too good to be cursed.
For the bad weather, a cheerful face.
Bad children? guilty parents.
One who marries for love alone will have bad days but good nights.
Borrowing is bad, and paying back is always a loss.
Be patient with a bad neighbor. Maybe he'll leave or a disaster will take him out.
Do bad and remember, do good and forget.
He who has bad breath cannot smell it.
If there was not bad taste, goods would not be sold.
Good news crawls on its belly; bad news has wings.
A bad brother is far better than no brother.
There is no bad patience.
For a fly to die on an ulcer is not bad.
Your own bad place is far better than your companion's place.
If you are looking for bad luck, you will soon find it.
Bad and good are intertwined like rope.
There is no such thing as bad food when you are really hungry.
What is bad luck for one man is good luck for another.
It is only one bad palm tree that spoils the whole lot of palm wine.
You must have crossed the river before you may tell the crocodile he has bad breath.
Beef to the heels like a Mullingar heifer.
When you buy beef, you buy bones; when you buy land, you buy rocks.
Honour buys no beef.
Ill beef ne'er made gude broo.
A kiss without a moustache is like beef without mustard.
The impatient person eats goat; the one who hesitates eats beef.
The always-hurrying person eats goat, but the one who takes his time eats beef.
He likes nae beef that grows on my banes.
Eat as much beef as you can.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Children's love is like water in a basket.
Basketeer who makes a basket makes a hundred if he's given line and time.
The rattan basket criticizes the palm leaf basket, still both are full of holes.
Without stooping down for the mushroom, you cannot put it in your basket.
If you called yourself a milk-mushroom ? get into the basket!.
Even the bottom of a basket finds something to hold.
Many words do not fill a basket .
Many words do not fill a basket.
He who makes one basket can make a hundred.
One basket of grapes does not make a vintage.
One, one cocoa full basket.
What a sad basket, leaving and returning empty.
This basket that leaves and returns unfilled is not nice.
Once grape gathering has finished, you have to hang up the basket.
Promised berries will not fill the basket.
Literally: Go out for a day, get a full basket of knowledge.
One rotten apple in the basket infects the whole.
Don't put all eggs in one basket.
Berry by berry, a basket will be full.
Come fish, come frog, all goes into the basket.
He that makes one basket can make a hundred.
One should not beg with a basket.
Don't carry all your eggs in one basket.
If a man gives you a basket to carry water, it means that he hates you.
Eggs and metal do not go in the same basket.
When brothers quarrel, take a hoe and go and dig; and when they make it up, take a basket and patter the crop.
There is no way you can pour water into a basket and expect the water to remain.
If you carry the egg basket do not dance.
What is put in a basket before going to the market won't be the same thing returned in the basket.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Don't put all you eggs in one basket.
He wont pick strawberries into the basket on somebody else.
A snake which escapes fills a basket.
Dem give yu basket fi carry water.
Fill your basket one item at a time.
Don't fetch water in a basket.
January hoeing fills the basket.
Sister Nicola said: Don't put the pasta basket in the water until it's boiling.
The love of a stranger is like water in a basket.
A beggar's hand is a bottomless basket.
Better bread in the basket than a feather in your cap.
The person that makes one basket can make a hundred.
Praise yourself, basket, for I want to sell you.
Don't hang yer basket higher than you can reach 'em.
One who knows everything at times draws water with a basket.
Don't carry all your eggs in one basket.
Do not put all your eggs in one basket.
A thief does not willingly see another carry a basket.
The rattan basket criticizes the palm-leafed bag, yet both are full of holes.
Good luck beats early rising.
He gives him roast meat and beats him with the spit.
Soft water on hard rock, beats so much that it perforates it.
The spendthrift beats his money as if it were a carpet.
A fool is like the big drum that beats fast but does not realize its hollowness.
He that beats the drum for the mad man to dance is no better than the mad man himself.
He that cannot beat the horse beats the saddle.
Many an honest heart beats under a ragged coat.
One beats one's breast who does not beat one's child.
It is the hunter who always beats the lions, because it is the hunter who always tells the stories.
He that has no wife, beats her oft.
A timely "no" beats a hasty "yes."
A timely "no” beats a hasty "yes.”.
What beats you is what teaches you.
Know thyself to know others, for heart beats like heart.
When the drummers change their beats the dancers must also change their Steps.
Rain beats a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots.
Good luck beats early rising.
Good is good, but better beats it.
Ane beats the bush, and anither grips the bird.
One beats the bush, and another catches the bird.
The wolf knows what the ill beats thinks.
One bad word beats nine good words.
A timely A timely "no" beats a hasty "yes."
When rain beats on a leopard it wets it, but rain does not wash out its spots.
In his own nest a beetle is a sultan.
Every beetle is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother.
In the eyes of its mother every beetle is a gazelle.
A beetle is a beauty in the eyes of his mother.
Win or lose, there's always huyperian beetle snuff.
Crime leaves a trail like a water beetle; like a snail, it leaves its silver track; like a horse-mango, it leaves its smell.
Every beetle is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother.
One beetle recognizes another.
Sooner will a beetle make honey.
For the ugly vice of begging, there's the virtue of not giving.
When you bump into someone, begging your pardon doesn't put it right.
What is got by begging is dearly bought.
He, who gives much, will soon start begging.
Always be well dressed, even when begging.
That costs dear which is bought with begging.
Eating what you plant is better than begging for leftovers.
If begging should unfortunately be thy lot, knock at the large gates only.
Many trades, begging the best.
The money and fortune will be drunken up soon, but the begging goes on forever.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
A good bark year makes a good wheat year.
When you are in a pack of hounds, you either bark or wag your tail.
The dog's bark is not might but fright.
When all men say you are a dog, it is time to bark.
You can't get at the precious sago without first breaking the bark.
The river won't get dirty just by the dog's bark.
Dogs delight to bark and bite for God has made them so.
Put not thy hand between the bark and the tree.
Beware of a man that does not talk and a dog that does not bark.
Beware of the dog that does not bark.
There is never wanting a dog to bark at you.
Let the dog bark at me, so he don't bite me.
Be careful for deep water and dogs that do not bark.
The man who has mounted an elephant will not fear the bark of a dog.
In a place without dogs they teach the cats to bark.
The dog that means to bite don't bark.
Dogs bark at hose they don't know.
He who wants to talk with the dogs must learn to bark.
He who has a dog need not bark himself.
What darg see him bark all night, ramgoat see it no trouble him.
Dogs bark and cows chew grass.
A dog is wiser than a woman; it does not bark at its master.
A dog does not always bark at the front gate.
When the hyena is gone, the dog begins to bark.
No stake ever grew old with the bark on.
Despite your bark, you'll be eaten.
The dog's bark is not might, but fright.
When one dog barks for nothing, all other dogs bark in earnest.
If no one comes the dog does not bark.
If you put a bone in the dog's mouth it doesn't bark.
An old dog does not bark for nothing.
It's dog's delight to bark and bite, but little children never.
Don't keep a dog and bark yourself.
Do not dwell in a city where a horse does not neigh nor a dog bark.
His bark is worse than his bite.
Why have a dog and bark yourself?
The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
Dogs that bark much don't bite.
What! keep a dog and bark myself?
Better for a man to have even a dog welcome him than a dog bark at him.
The loudest bark rids not a dog of his fleas.
The dog was asked: Why do you bark? - To scare the wolves. - Why do you wag your tail? -What do you think, am I not afraid of wolves?
An old dog does not bark for nothing.
The dog that bites does not bark in vain.
Peel the inner bark of the lime tree until it peels.
Money talks, although the dog may bark.
The old dog doesn't bark without reason.
The dogs in Lund bark.
Better a Dog faun nor bark on you.
His bark is waur than his bite.
Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
Who shouts at home will bark away from home.
Dogs that bark at a distance bite not at hand.
It is hard to teach old dogs to bark.
The most noble dog can only bark.
An old dog does not bark for nothing.
Why keep a dog and bark yourself?
Don't raise your stick and the dog won't bark at you.
Dogs bark but the caravan moves on.
When there is real danger, the dogs don't bark.
From a silent man, and a dog that does not bark, deliver us.
Let the dogs bark; it's a sign that we are galloping ahead.
Watch out for the dog that doesn't bark and the man who says nothing.
My bark, once struck by the fury of the storm, dreads again to approach the place of danger.
Dogs bark, but the caravan keeps on.
A person needs a face, trees need bark.
Don't bark if you can't bite.
What does the moon care if the dogs bark at her?
You cannot judge a tree by its bark.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
The dogs bark but the caravan passes on.
Put not thy hand between the bark and the tree.
A' are no thieves that dogs bark at.
Better a dog fawn on you than bark at you.
The dogs bark, but the caravan passes on.
Flies know well the sweet seller's beard.
Better a Jew without a beard than a beard without a Jew.
A beard signifies lice, not brains.
Every man is the king of his own beard.
The cat well knows whose beard she licks.
One man's beard is burning, and another warms his hands by it.
There is no beard so well shaven but another barber will find something more to shave from it.
When your beard appears, childhood disappears.
When you see that someone is cutting your neighbor's beard, start wetting yours.
A long beard and a rosary will not make you a priest.
He who spits up in the air will get it back on his beard.
Do not ridicule the thin-bearded when you yourself have no beard.
A heavy heart seldom combs a gray beard.
Too many barbers would be ready to shave the beard of a beardless man.
Play, play, with the beard of the father also play?
With this beard you want to go to Tajrish?
A beard lathered is half shaved.
A beard once washed is half shaven.
Wisdom is in the head and not in the beard.
A man without a beard is like bread without a crust.
Lilly billy-goat hab beard by big bull hab none.
Lickle bit a ram goat have beard an' big dull noh have nun.
Wisdom is in the head, not in the beard.
Praise your horse tomorrow, your son when he has a beard, your daughter when she is married and yourself never.
Better a Jew without a beard than a beard without a Jew.
Even hares pull a lion by the beard when he is dead.
A kiss without a beard is like an egg without salt.
Grey hair into beard, devil into rib.
A priest's beard is always soaked in butter.
A beard well lathered is half shaved.
Sometimes you need to sacrifice your beard in order to save your head.
A beard is a symbol of courage.
The first thing that God created was his own beard.
Don't ask in this life for the three most difficult things: good sons, long life and a long beard.
As long as the beard exists, the world clenches its fists.
Whatever nourished the goat until it grew a beard will continue to sustain him.
If wisdom is measured by the size of the beard then the goat is a philosopher king.
It is not the beard that makes the philosopher.
The brains don't like in the beard.
It is a base thing to tear a dead lion's beard off.
If a beard were all, the goat would be the winner.
Beard and cloak do not make one a philosopher.
Do not mistake a goats beard for a fine stallion's tail.
If my aunt had a beard, this man would be my uncle.
Brains are not to be found in the beard.
A beard well lathered is half shaved.
On a fool's beard the barber learns to shave.
The beard does not make the philosopher.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
A red beard and a black head, catch him with a good trick and take him dead.
If you want to know if someone has money, observe his beard and his boots.
He wants to learn how to shave using my beard.
If a fool has a lot of grease he will wipe it on his beard.
God created the beard on himself first.
Who has beard has the power.
Beard grows and the man is well.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
One man's beard is on fire, and another man warms his hands on it.
The brains don't lie in the beard.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
When you see your neighbour's beard being cut, put yours in water.
The bee, from her industry in the summer, eats honey all the winter.
When the bee comes to your house, let her have beer; you may want to visit the bee's house some day.
The bee gets honey from the same flower where the snake sucks her poison.
Similar to a bee: in their mouths they carry sweet honey, and in their tails poison.
The queen bee has no sting.
All the honey a bee gathers during its lifetime doesn't sweeten its sting.
A good bee will not go to a drooping flower.
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings.
A bee stinging a crying face.
A person who is stung by a bee fears a big housefly.
When a bee stings a man, he doesn't set off to destroy all beehives.
A woman is like a bee treat her well and she will make honey, treat her badly and she will go wild.
From beavers, bees should learn to mend their ways. A bee works; a beaver works and plays.
Better have one bee than a host of flies.
From the same flower the bee extracts honey and the wasp gall.
The bee has a sting but honey too.
The bee without a sting collects no honey.
A bee does not touch a withered flower.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove.
As busy as a bee.
When the bee sucks, it makes honey, when the spider, poison.
Where the bee sucks honey the spider sucks poison.
One bee makes no swarm.
A bee is always behind the flower.
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings.
You compare the bee to the grasshopper.
We taught them how to beg, they raced us to the gates.
Better to beg forgiveness than to ask permission.
Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst.
To give in order to receive is not to give, but to beg.
Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst.
Better have to give than have to beg.
To give is honor, to beg is dishonor.
Better keep, than have to beg.
Give a loaf, and beg a shive.
Better beg than steal.
The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.
To beg of the miser is to dig a trench in the sea.
Let them talk of men, and beg of me.
All do not beg for one saint.
No matter if the child's born blind, as long as it doesn't beg.
One should not beg with a basket.
Better to have something yourself, than to beg of your sister.
That which has been thrown away has often to be begged for again.
If you want half a bread, beg smaddy buy it, but if yu want a wan, buy it yuself.
Neither serve one who has been a servant, nor beg of one who has been a beggar.
Neither beg of him who has been a beggar, nor serve him who has been a servant.
You must live cool some time, even if you'll beg the rest of your life.
Never beg from one who was a beggar.
Drink beer, think beer.
When the bee comes to your house, let her have beer; you may want to visit the bee's house some day.
Beer before wine, you'll feel fine. Wine before beer, you'll feel queer.
One mouth doesn't taste the beer.
Life's not all beer and skittles.
Whiskey on beer, never fear. Beer on whiskey, mighty risky.
Beer before liquor, you'll never be sicker, but liquor before beer and you're in the clear.
Life's not all beer and skittles.
When the beer goes in the wits go out.
Wine upon beer is very good cheer; beer upon wine consider with fear.
Beer makes beautiful bodies.
Milk for a child, meat for a man, beer for the old.
Froth is no beer.
A glass for the vodka, for the beer a mug, and for the table, cheerful company.
The beer is difficult to strain.
You cannot loosen a man's tongue with root beer.
One glass can ruin all the beer.
Young suga-cane gives no beer.
If you do not have patience you cannot make beer.
Fun is like fine beer it is rarely enjoyable alone.
They who drink beer think beer.
Cider on beer, never fear; beer upon cider, makes a bad rider.
Small beer comes the last.
He who drinks no more still likes to see the beer pulled.
In wine there is wisdom. In beer there is strength. In water there is bacteria.
Young sugar-cane gives no beer.
A house full of daughters is a cellar full of sour beer.
He does not think small beer of himself.
Rather water from the brother than beer from a stranger.
Do not cease to drink beer, to eat, to intoxicate thyself, to make love, and to celebrate the good days.
The government will fall that raises the price of beer.
When father drinks beer the children are hungry.
Booze makes what beer doesn't know.
Windmills are not driven by bellows.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows: he breathes but does not live.
There's no turning a windmill with a pair of bellows.
You cannot drive a windmill with a pair of bellows.
Ill words are bellows to a slackening fire.
He bellows like a bull, but is as weak as a bulrush.
Man is fire, woman is tow; the devil comes with a bellows.
Ill words are bellows to a slackening fire.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows. He breathes, but does not live.
A woman is flax, man is fire, the devil comes and blows the bellows.
Thieves never steal bells.
Great fools must have great bells.
Laws without penalties are like bells without clappers.
Laws without punishment are like bells with no clackers.
If you are going to steal bells plug your ears.
You can tell an educated person by their talk and bells by their ringing.
Monreale, a city without comfort, either it rains, or the wind blows, or bells ring for the dead.
If two doctors visit a sick man, the sexton rings the bells.
When big bells ring, little ones are not heard.
When the bells are in water they can't make any sound.
Give her bells and let her fly.
While the great bells are ringing no one hears the little ones.
Every one thinks that all the bells echo his own thoughts.
A fool does not need any bells.
Ring the bells for whoever eats snails and drinks water, because he's dead.
The goats pasture with bells hanging from their necks in order not to stray.
People make the bells say what they please.
He who receives the offerings let him ring the bells.
Do not keep your tongue under your belt.
An italian only feels safe with his hook in his belt.
A belt fastened while running will come undone while running.
One has to tighten the belt.
He was snatched by the belt.
Thy Thumb is under my Belt.
Every man wears his belt his ain gait.
Good repute is better than a golden belt.
For a poor man, to prepare for a trip means belt himself.
Hungry bear doesn't dance.
Not all the tree's blossoms will bear fruit.
Bad is the sack that will not bear patching.
Who divides honey with the bear, will be like to get the lesser share..
Catch the bear before you sell his skin.
He that will have fire must bear with smoke.
I ran from the wolf but ran into a bear.
He that sleeps with a dog, should bear its fleas.
Walk your own road and bear your own load.
Sometimes you get the bear and sometimes the bear gets you.
A dog doesn't like bananas, but he can't bear to think that chickens eat them.
The farmer grows the corn, but the bear eats it.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets along the way.
Never trust a woman, even if she has borne you seven children.
A heavy load should be borne together as well as a light load.
A palm tree growing in the shade will not bear ripe fruit.
Roots of evil bear bitter fruits.
A light burden's heavy if far borne.
If you will stir up the mire, you must bear the smell.
The oldest trees often bear the sweetest fruit.
Where'er an ass is crown'd to fame, both town and country bear the shame.
Bear and bull catch no fox.
He who cannot bear misfortune is truly unfortunate.
Whatever kind of word thou speakest, the like shalt thou bear.
Endeavor to bear the ignorance of fortune with patience.
What was hard to bear is sweet to remember.
Don't divide the fur on the bear.
What was hard to bear is sweet to remember.
Everything may be borne except good fortune.
God sends nothing but what can be borne.
Vexations, duly borne, Are but as trials, which heaven's love to man Sends for his good.
A bear that dances in your neighbor's house might soon dance in yours.
Don't wake the bear that sleeps.
Don't sell the fur until the bear has been shot.
If you run from a wolf, you may run into a bear.
Dont sell the skin, until you have shot the bear.
Who eats like a wolf will work like a bear.
Everyone knows the bear, but the bear knows no one.
With time, even a bear can learn to dance.
When you bear a grudge, your child will also bear a grudge.
Bear patiently that which you suffer by your own fault.
Don't sell the bearskin before the bear is dead.
Men can bear all things except good days.
Bear patiently that which thou sufferest by thine own fault.
The absent always bear the blame.
Bear wealth, poverty will bear itself.
Bear with evil and expect good.
The old bear falls into the old trap.
Good fortune wears a pretty dress but its underclothes do not bear investigation.
It is easier to bear a child once a year than to shave every day.
Call the bear "uncle” till you are safe across the bridge.
When you are an anvil, bear; when you are a hammer, strike.
I bear the laurel-branch.
Do not bear ill will toward those who tell you the truth.
Don't go selling the hide while the bear remains in the hole.
The hanging fruit is never too heavy for the creeper to bear.
A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear.
A pear tree cannot bear an apple.
It is easy to bear the misfortunes of others.
No price is too low for a bear or too high for a bull.
Are you a dugong, you cannot bear a wound?.
Plant the crab-tree where you will it will never bear pippins.
Don't trust your wife until she has borne you ten sons.
The eye cannot bear loads yet it can tell heavy objects from light ones.
If you can bear the hissing of a snake, don't complain when you are bitten.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets.
You can bear with your own faults, and why not a fault in your wife?
It is a proud horse that will not bear his own provender.
Adversity is easier borne than prosperity forgot.
It is easy to bear the misfortunes of others.
Conversation is like making love; the man is the question, the woman the answer, and the union of both will bear fruit.
We must bear our cross with patience, said the man when he took his wife on his back.
Don't sell the fur before shooting the bear.
It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate.
It is not easy to sting a bear with a straw.
Three, helping one another, bear the burden of six.
He is a bad smith who cannot bear smoke.
He who wants a fire must be able to bear smoke.
He who will have eggs, must bear with the cackling.
Friendship with a fool may turn into the hug of a bear .
Bear witness to facts, not words.
Don't share the skin while it's still on the bear.
A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear.
Don't sell the bearskin before you have caught the bear.
Let us first catch the bear and then sell its skin.
Don't play with the bear if you don't want to be bit.
Do not drink in advance on the hide of a bear.
Call the bear uncle till you are safe across the bridge.
The immature rice stalk stands erect, while the mature stalk, heavy with grain, bends over.
Negotiate a river by following its bends, enter a country by following its customs.
Before the bending arm straighten, or before the straighten arm bends.
A stick one bends while it is still green.
The taller the bamboo grows, the lower it bends.
An iron rod bends while it is hot.
Better the rod that bends than one that breaks.
He who bends over too far shows his rear end.
A stick one bends while it is still green.
A young tree bends, an old tree breaks.
The heaviest ear of corn bends its head lowest.
The wind does not break a tree that bends.
The stick bends but does not break.
A young tree bends, an old tree breaks.
The last benefit is most remembered.
There is no benefit that sticks to the fingers.
As porridge benefits those who heat and eat it, so does a child benefit those that rear it.
Any book you open will benefit your mind.
Quiet people, whether wise or dull, get the benefit of the doubt.
It's hard to scare a person who thinks he will benefit from dying.
A small benefit obtained is better than a great one in expectation.
Every impediment is a benefit.
We benefit by affliction.
The gifts of fortune do not always benefit us.
Even if it does not benefit you, it will not harm you.
The wise benefit more from their enemies than fools from their friends.
A person is trying to benefit from being close to opposing parties.
Upbraiding makes a benefit an injury.
May both seller and buyer see the benefit.
If you beat my drum, I will blow your whistle.
When you are given, eat, when you are beaten, run away.
A man has often cut a rod to beat himself.
If the potato misses, Ireland's beaten.
Who cannot beat the horse let him beat the saddle.
Beat a chinese long enough and he will talk tibetan.
The heart of a servant that is not beaten is full of curses.
They couldn't beat the donkey so they beat the saddle.
He who has a back is not beaten on the belly.
Beat your wife regularly; if you don't know why, she will.
Beat your wife on the wedding day, and your married life will be happy.
Beaten with his own rod.
Two small antelopes can beat a big one.
Before you beat the dog, find out the name of his master.
If you beat spice it will smell the sweeter.
More people are threatened than are beaten up.
You can beat anyone if you have a golden slipper.
He who is not beaten by the sun or the rain, will eventually be beaten by the hunger.
If you can't beat em, join em.
He that cannot beat the horse beats the saddle.
Beat the iron while it is hot.
A man surprised is half beaten.
If you can't beat em, join em.
The dog that has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow.
The best trees are the most beaten.
He who has a mind to beat a dog will easily find a stick.
Beat the rogue and he will be your friend.
It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog.
He that would beat his dog can easily find a stick.
Money is best when counted, a woman is best when beaten.
One beats one's breast who does not beat one's child.
"Now the marriage begins," says the woman who has been beaten with thorns.
Beat the dog; wait for its master.
Who is up to mischief will get beaten.
An intelligent monkey can still be beaten.
Enjoy the beat of other drums, but this is my song.
Donkeys and women, beat them with a stick, to keep them at task.
Close the door and beat the dog.
A beaten one is worth two unbeaten ones.
Beat your own and others will fear you.
If you want to beat a dog, say he eat your iron.
Man is always beaten by his own tricks.
To serve a mean person, is to beat the earth.
Drums are never beat without reason.
You do not beat a drum with one finger.
Gold, when beaten, shines.
Studyation beat education.
It is an easy thing to find a staff to beat a dog.
If you beat even new floor mats, dirt will come out.
The dog that wags its tail won't be beaten.
A tiger cannot beat a crowd of monkeys.
Beat the drum inside the house to spare the neighbors.
Conquerors are kings; the beaten are bandits.
You can beat a fool half to death but you can't beat the foolishness out of him.
A visitor doesn't survive from a stick beat of a burglar.
Beat one dog and the others will run away.
Don't beat the drums of war unless you're ready to fight.
He who isn't around is never beaten by the falling tree.
A man is obliged to beat his own chest when he has no drum.
Death and taxes may be hard to beat.
There's more than one way to beat the devil around the bush.
Where drums beat, laws are dumb.
A dog will not howl if you beat him with a bone. (1659)
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
Gnats, in great number, can beat an elephant.
A woman, a dog, and a walnut tree, the more you beat them the better they be.
We beat the sack and mean the miller.
All the world will beat the man whom fortune buffets.
Despise your enemy and you will soon be beaten.
If you can't beat them, join them.
A stick is soon found to beat a dog.
No grass grows on a beaten road.
One Englishman can beat three Frenchmen.
A nut is good if broken, a women if beaten.
Give lodgement to a Slovak and you will be beaten out of your home.
A beaten one carries an unbeaten.
God does not beat one with a stick.
A spaniel, a woman, and a walnut-tree, the more they're beaten the better they be.
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
They shall beat their swords into ploughshares.
If a drum is not made, it is the fault of the master; but if the drum is made and is not beaten, then that is the fault of the boys.
People who have not secret agreement are beaten by a single club.
Do not show a stick to a dog that has been beaten.
If you're out to beat a dog, you're sure to find a stick.
It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog.
A spaniel, a wife, and a walnut tree, The more you beat 'em the better they be.
No grass grows on a beaten road.
It is good to beat a proud man when he is alone.
Anything forced is not beautiful.
It is beautiful to do nothing and then rest afterwards.
The most beautiful fig may contain a worm.
Even the most beautiful sheets have small flaws.
The most beautiful things in the universe are the starry heavens above us and the feeling of duty within us.
Patience is the most beautiful prayer.
A beautiful woman belongs to everyone; an ugly one is yours alone.
Everything new is beautiful.
Only a certain amount of flowers and jewels are beautiful.
Beautiful woman, beautiful trouble.
Where the hostess is beautiful the wine is tasty.
How beautiful to watch the rain and not get wet.
Dress up a stick and it'll be a beautiful bride.
A beautiful thing is never perfect.
You are beautiful; but learn to work, for you cannot eat your beauty.
Beautiful from behind, ugly in front.
Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face.
The rainbow would be even more beautiful if the show was not for free.
Every woman beautiful till she speaks.
Patience is the mother of a beautiful child.
The child who died too soon was always beautiful and intelligent.
Apple blossoms are beautiful, but rice dumplings are better.
The most beautiful flowers flourish in the shade.
The surface of the water is beautiful, but it is no good to sleep on.
A beautiful face is a letter of recommendation.
If you're beautiful, whatever you do is fine.
It is not the most beautiful woman who has the most sense.
I feel pain that envy is exchanged for beautiful deeds.
If one loves the ugly, one shall find it beautiful.
Thousands of men were murdered because of their beautiful wives.
Whoever I love is the most beautiful.
The sun is still beautiful, though ready to set.
Beer makes beautiful bodies.
In the dark all cats and all girls are beautiful.
Life is beautiful if it is hectic.
If God didn't like beautiful women, he wouldn't have made them.
The world is nonsense: what looks beautiful in the morning looks ugly in the evening.
No matter how beautiful the shoes are, they still have to go on the ground.
Trapani, red coral, Monte San Giuliano, beautiful children.
With everything Messina has the port, but for beautiful Palermo it is always just an orchard.
Debt is beautiful only after it is repaid.
A beautiful wife without money is like a fine house without furniture.
The beautiful is less what one sees than what one dreams.
Beautiful discourse is rarer than emerald, yet it can be found among the servant girls at the grindstones.
The one who loves an unsightly person is the one who makes him beautiful.
Distant hills look beautiful; near ones are ugly.
That which in the beautiful woman is grace, in the ugly woman turns to disgrace.
The cook does not have to be a beautiful woman.
A beautiful woman who is pleasing to men is good only for frightening fish when she falls into the water.
You are beautiful because of your possessions.
The skin of the leopard is beautiful, but not his heart.
The leopard's skin is beautiful, but his heart evil.
Beautiful words don't put porridge in the pot.
Without wine, even beautiful cherry blossoms have small attraction.
What is good is not necessarily beautiful.
A beautiful woman is like an axe in one's life.
Your best mirror is someone more beautiful than you.
A beautiful flower is incomplete without its leaves.
Women are as beautiful as flowers when they are forty years old.
To have beautiful servant girls is a threat to good marriages.
The peony is beautiful, yet it is supported by a stalk.
Eighteen daughters beautiful as goddesses are not as good as one crippled son.
Beautiful roads never go far.
If the pedestal is beautiful the statue must be even more beautiful.
Even the most beautiful morning cannot bring back the evening.
A beautiful one hurts the heart.
Getting only a beautiful woman is like planting a vine on the roadside everyone feeds on it.
She is beautiful; she has love, understands; she respects herself and others; everyone likes, loves and honours her; she is a goddess.
A chicken with beautiful plumage does not sit in a corner.
It is only a stupid cow that rejoices at the prospect of being taken to a beautiful abattoir.
It is the beautiful bird which gets caged.
When a blind man dies, he is praised as having beautiful eyes.
If you want to take revenge on a man, send him a really beautiful woman.
A beautiful face is admired even when its owner doesn't say anything.
Women prefer to be beautiful rather than good.
The three most beautiful sights: a potato garden in bloom, a ship under sail, and a woman after the birth of a child.
You can't make something beautiful with force.
Wait for the night before saying that the day has been beautiful.
Who loves cats has a beautiful wife.
Having need of makes the ugly beautiful.
Every bird thinks its own nest beautiful.
The bride is too beautiful.
His eyes are beautiful, but his heart is a devil.
If you find "Miss This Year" beautiful, then you'll find "Miss Next Year" even more so.
Beautiful may mornings and beautiful january evenings.
Beautiful things are never as beautiful as those that are pleasing.
The most beautiful laughter comes from the mouth of a mourner.
Her beauty is the only dowery a beautiful girl needs.
A beggar will always be a beggar even if they give him the whole world as a gift.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the devil.
A glutton young, a beggar old.
A beggar talked to a picture, but picture answered nothing.
A beggar himself, can he afford to have one asking for alms at his door?
Sit a beggar at your table and he will soon put his feet on it.
The beggar may sing before the thief.
Since the beggar would come any way, it's best to invite him first.
A beggar won't mind being insulted.
Sue a beggar and catch a louse.
The thief is no danger to the beggar.
From the king to the beggar, they all depend on the farm.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to hell.
When the sea turned into honey, the beggar lost his spoon.
Don't be misled by the tears of a beggar.
A fly, a harlot, a beggar, a rat, and gusty wind; the village-boss and the tax collector – these seven are always annoying to others.
Beggar beg from beggar him nebber get rich.
A poor beggar is the one who begs without a bag.
‘Tis as necessary to him as gold weights are to a beggar.
I beggar is not favoured even by his relations.
Bashfulness will not avail a beggar.
The person who gives away his belongings will slowly become a beggar.
The beggar is not afraid of the drawbacks of being rich.
The beggar who asks for crumbs gets more than the one who asks for bread.
The beggar that begs near another beggar will never be rich.
Better a live beggar than a dead king.
The court official in one life has seven rebirths as a beggar.
Anyone can be polite to a king, but it takes a gentleman to be polite to a beggar.
The best morsels are never given to a beggar.
A beggar can never be bankrupt.
Sue a beggar and get a louse.
Merchant to-day, beggar to-morrow.
No pride like that of an enriched beggar.
Death spares neither Pope nor beggar.
It is better to be a beggar than a fool.
A bashful beggar has an empty wallet.
A bashful beggar will have an empty wallet.
A shy beggar has an empty scrip.
A sturdy beggar should hae a stout nae-sayer.
He that marries a beggar gets a louse for a tocher.
When gnats swarm in January, the peasant becomes a beggar.
It is a grief to one beggar that another stands at the door.
A beggar on his feet is worth more than an emperor in his grave.
One beggar at the door is enough.
Death carries on its shoulders a heavy Tsar just as easily as a light beggar.
It is better to be born a beggar than a fool.
Neither serve one who has been a servant, nor beg of one who has been a beggar.
Put a beggar into your barn and he will make himself your heir.
Neither beg of him who has been a beggar, nor serve him who has been a servant.
An idle youth becomes in age a beggar.
Even the beggar envies the beggar.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death; Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the Devil.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
The beggar is not afraid of the drawbacks of being rich.
He is a fairy beggar that may not goe by ane mans door.
Proud as a beggar from Pori.
A beggar is never out of his road.
The poor man commands respect; the beggar must always excite anger.
Never beg from one who was a beggar.
The dowry that a woman brings is like a bell; every time she passes by she hits you with the clapper.
The bell is loud because it is empty.
A good bell is heard from far, a bad one still further.
Hidden virtues ring like a soft bell.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
The sound of a church bell at times has more effect than a sermon.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
It is a sorry flock where the ewe bears the bell.
The higher the bell is hung, the shriller it sounds.
The sound of the bell does not drive away rooks.
A tiger wearing a bell will starve.
He did hear the sound of the bell, but doesn't know where the clapper hangs.
A cracked bell will never be sound.
Cover the ears and steal the bell.
The loudest bell does not always have the sweetest tone.
A good example is like a bell that calls many to church.
No one likes to bell the cat.
When the poor man is burried, the large bell of the parish is silent.
The congregation is poor, the priest rings the bell himself.
It is a silly flock where the yow bears the bell.
It is well said, but who will bell the Cat?
Who hears but one bell hears but one sound.
The bell does not go to mass, and yet calls every one to it.
The ox without a bell is soon lost.
Though my father-in-law is a good man, I do not like a dog with a bell.
The devil climbs the bell tower in a priest's cassock.
God comes to see without ringing the bell.
There is no need to fasten a bell to a fool, he is sure to tell his own tale.
There's nothing worse for an intelligent person than to put a fool beside him.
Better sit beside him than in his place.
Sitting down beside the boxes.
Four things put a man beside himself--women, tobacco, cards, and wine.
Your companion's body is beside.
The heart is but the beach beside the sea that is the world.
If you sit with us, you will get like us; if you sit beside a cooking pot, you will get black.
It is easy to collect ears of corn under, beside a stack.
Wherever something stands, another thing stands beside it.
Wherever something stands, another thing stands beside it.
A ship often sank beside the harbour.
He who sits waiting for his neighbor will go to bed hungry.
The best bed that a man can sleep on is peace.
Every man is a prince in his own bed.
He makes the bed soft, yet it's hard to sleep on.
Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.
The hyena chasing two antelopes at the same time will go to bed hungry.
He who gets a name for early rising can stay in bed until midday.
War is to a man what bed is to a woman.
When the bed breaks, there is the ground to lie on.
It's better to sleep on the floor in an incense shop than in a bed in a fishmarket.
One sleeps like one makes his bed.
He who goes to bed with dogs will get up with fleas.
A wooden bed is better than a golden coffin.
You cannot make a soft bed for everyone.
Anyone can fancy his bed as a palace.
Bed is the poor man's opera.
Where it is customary the cow is brought to bed.
Who cares about every little feather should not make the bed.
You canot know the bugs of a bed that you have not lain on.
The space under the bed is like a mat.
Stretch your legs the length of your bed.
A child who is to be successful is not reared exclusively on a bed of down.
The hyena chasing two gazelles at the same will go to bed hungry.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. (1639)
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
An old man is a bed full of bones.
As you make your bed, so you must lie in it.
He that doesn't know his bed is too hard sleeps well.
Too much bed makes a dull head.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
Better to go to bed supperless than run in debt.
When you go to bed with a clear head, you will not get up with a headache.
Frost on the mutt, water on the bed.
Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others.
Go to bed without supper, you will rise without debt.
If you would be in good repute, let not the sun find you in bed.
How you make your bed, thus will you rest.
To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of.
Buy the bed of a great debtor.
As one makes his bed, that way he shall lie down.
The first sin makes the bed for the second.
The germans in the stable, the czech in the kitchen and the french in bed.
He who goes to bed hungry dreams of pancakes.
Sleep on a bed of silver and dream of gold.
Every bed has lice.
Have no respect at table and in bed.
By day they're ready to divorce, by night they're ready for bed.
Take thy thoughts to bed with thee, for the morning is wiser than the evening.
One may make up a soft bed for somebody, but still it will be hard to sleep in.
The greatest king must at last be put to bed with a shovel.
Better a bed of wood than a bier of gold.
Makes the bed soft, yet hard to sleep.
Go to bed with the lamb, and rise with the lark.
A good conversation is better than a good bed.
Nobody gets out of the bed to sleep on the floor.
Klingons do not lie in bed.
I have so much to do that I am going to bed.
We all end up in a single bed sooner or later.
If you are merciful to the antelope, you go to bed hungry.
He who requires what is under the bed must bend for it.
An ear dots not go to bed hungry.
It is not economical to go to bed early to save the candles if the result is twins.
You can only know the fleas in the bed you have slept in.
When problems visit a man it arrives with its own bed and table.
To carry care to bed is to sleep with a pack on your back.
Nobody gets out of the bed to sleep on the floor.
He that seeks a horse or a wife without fault, has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed.
A lazy boy and a warm bed are difficult to part.
Who makes his bed on the morrow; goes all day without sorrow.
Early to rise and late to bed, lifts again the debtor's head.
He who sleeps in a silver bed has golden dreams.
He who goes to bed with dogs, will wake up with fleas.
No bed is big enough to hold three.
The fireside is the tulip bed of a winter day.
Bed is the poor man's opera.
A new sieve is on a nail, then it gets under the bed.
To get out of the bed on the wrong side.
As one makes his bed, so he sleeps his dream.
There belongs mair to a bed nor four bare leggs.
Last in bed, best heard.
Laith to bed and laith to rise.
You've made your bed, so you can lie in it.
To make your neighbor jealous, go to bed early and get up early.
Bed rest cures a hurt leg and a sling heals a hurting arm.
It's a bad sign when the sick person tosses and turns in bed.
The bed of the Dominicans, the table of the Capuccins, and the luxury of the Benedictines.
The sick bed makes the doctor.
Who drinks at night, buys himself death, who drinks in bed, buys himself a coffin.
Beauty is only skin deep.
If you fall in love let her be a beauty; if you should steal, let it be a camel.
Judge not your beauty by the number of people who look at you, but rather by the number of people who smile at you.
Beauty cannot be eaten with a spoon.
Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor.
Beauty is an empty calabash.
Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old.
Beauty is ten, nine of which is dressing.
Beauty without virtue is a curse.
What does the blind man know of the beauty of the tulip?
Ugliness with a good character is better than beauty.
If there is a character, ugliness becomes beauty; if there is none, beauty becomes ugliness.
A woman's beauty cannot warm a winter's night.
Beauty is not so much what you see as what you dream.
Beauty is the sister of idleness and the mother of luxury.
A heart in love with beauty never grows old.
The beauty of the man is in his intelligence and the intelligence of the woman is in her beauty.
A man possesses beauty in his quality and a woman possesses quality in her beauty.
A good character is real beauty that never fades.
Youth is beauty, even in cattle.
You are beautiful; but learn to work, for you cannot eat your beauty.
Beauty and folly are constant companions.
Beauty is skin deep.
A woman's polite devotion is her greatest beauty.
The beauty of a woman becomes useless if there is no one to admire it.
There is always a winner even in a monkey's beauty contest.
Despite the beauty of the moon, sun and stars, the sky also has a threatening thunder and striking lightening.
She who is a beauty is half married.
Beauty is eloquent even when silent.
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone.
Beauty may open doors but only virtue enters.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
Beauty and honesty seldom agree.
Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit.
Beauty never travels in a group.
Beauty doesn't exist, men only dream it.
Beauty is power.
Beauty is a good letter of introduction.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Beauty does not season soup.
She who is born a beauty is born betrothed.
What worth has beauty if it is not seen?
You have married a beauty? So much the worse for you.
Better an ugly duckling from your own village than a beauty from foreign parts.
Beauty is not sold and eaten.
Good health is the sister of beauty.
Charm is stronger than beauty.
The beauty of a housewife will not put more fat into the soup.
Beauty widout grace like rose widout smell.
Beauty does not fill your tummy.
One cannot make soup out of beauty.
Beauty will fade, but not goodness.
Honesty and kindness enhance every beauty.
Charm is more than beauty.
Walk in the valley of our ancestors, learn of the history, and marvel at the beauty.
Old canoes can be restored, but youth and beauty cannot.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Beauty is potent, but money is omnipotent.
Beauty is but dross it honesty be lost.
Beauty and folly are often companions.
Beauty passes, but perfection remains with us.
Beauty and chastity are always quarreling.
As the grace of man is in the mind, so the beauty of the mind is eloquence.
Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor.
If you want beauty, you must be injured.
An eight-sided beauty is coldhearted.
A woman gets thirty percent of her beauty from nature and seventy percent from makeup.
Virtue becomes a wife; beauty becomes a concubine.
It's not the beauty of a woman that blinds the man, the man blinds himself.
Everything has its beauty but not everyone sees it.
If there is beauty in character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
A woman who pursues a man for sex looses her spiritual beauty.
Even the colours of a chameleon are for survival not beauty.
Having beauty doesn't mean understanding the perseverance of marriage.
He who marries a beauty marries trouble.
Beauty and folly are old companions.
Beauty is as beauty does.
Beauty without virtue is a rose without fragrance.
A true wife is her husband's flower of beauty.
Age before beauty; pearls before swine.
Beauty is no longer amiable than while virtue adorns it.
Beauty is only skin deep.
A poor beauty finds more lovers than husbands.
Beauty draws more than oxen.
Health and gaiety foster beauty.
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
A god-given beauty needs no beautician.
Don't pride over your wealth or beauty, one will be gone in a night and the other with a fever.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
Tree would bend when it bears fruit.
While the blanket is short, learn to bend.
Young bamboo trees are easy to bend.
Angels bend down their wings to a seeker of knowledge.
To bend a bamboo, start when it is a shoot.
A family tie is like a tree; it can bend but it cannot break.
Bend the tree while it is young.
An empty purse can't stand alone and a full purse can't bend.
The heart is not a knee, it does not bend.
The wind does not break a tree that can bend.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
He who requires what is under the bed must bend for it.
Easier to bend the body than the will.
It's better to break than to bend.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
A full ear of corn will bend its head; an empty ear will stand upright.
The corn will bend but it still ends up in the mill.
Bend with the tree that will bend with you.
Better bend than break.
The tall one wouldn't bend; the short one wouldn't stretch and the kiss was lost.
Bend the tree while is a twig.
Best to bend while it is a twig.
Better to bend than to break.
A full purse cannot bend.
You should kiss the hand that you can't bend.
Better to bend than break.
Bend the willow while it is young.
Better bend than break.
An oath broken by one does not thereafter bind the other.
You can't bind a cloud even with copper chains.
Willows are weak, yet serve to bind bigger wood.
It is best to bind up the finger before it is cut.
Willows are weak but they bind other wood.
Fair promises bind fools.
There is no need to bind up one's head before it is broken.
Bind the seck ere it be full.
Ane may bind a sack before it be fou'.
Bind the sack before it is full.
Let us sit bent, but talk straight.
The heart is not a knee that can be bent.
The winds may fell the massive oak, but bamboo, bent even to the ground, will spring upright after the passage of the storm.
A bow too much bent will break.
You will break the bow if you keep it always bent.
A bow that is bent too far will break.
The higher the bamboo, the more it can be bent.
The bow must not be always bent.
A tree that has grown bent for thirty years cannot be straightened in one year.
When the shadow of a tree is bent, straighten the tree, not the shadow.
A bow long bent at length waxeth weak.
A child's back must be bent early.
The old branch breaks when it is bent.
As the twig is bent, so is the tree inclined.
The tree must be bent while it is young.
A bow long bent at last waxes weak.
Young twigs may be bent, but not old trees.
Strain not your bow beyond its bent, lest it break.
Trust not your money to one whose eyes are bent on the ground.
A bow too much bent is broken.
Give the fool a sausage and he tells you it's bent.
That which got bent while growing when you straighten it, it breaks.
A bow too much bent will break.
The branch must be bent early that is to make a good crook.
A bent head is not touched by the sword.
A man who gets, a bitch who lets.
Life's a bitch and then you marry one.
If the bitch were not in haste, she would not litter blind puppies.
The hasty bitch gives birth to blind puppies.
If the dog barks, go in; if the bitch barks you had better stay outside.
The hasty bitch brings forth blind whelps.
It is all one whether you are bit by a dog or a bitch.
The dog that has its bitch in town never barks well.
Whom God loves, his bitch litters pigs.
The dog that has his bitch in town never barks well.
The sooner begun, the sooner done.
War begun, hell unchained.
The world's Great Journeys begin with the first step.
To begin is to be half done.
If you wish to learn the highest truth, begin with the alphabet.
Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark.
Before you begin to trade in blame look in the mirror.
It is better to begin in the evening than not at all.
When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them.
Every beginning is hard, said the thief, when he began by stealing an anvil.
He who would the daughter win, with the mother must begin.
Who the daughter would win, with mamma must begin.
He that would be old long must begin betimes.
To a weaving that has begun, God sends threads.
It is better not to begin than, having begun, leave unfinished.
Do not start if afraid, once begun do not be afraid.
He! He! He! You begin with the meal before the water is boiling!
Think before you begin.
In eating 'tis good to begin, one morsel helps the other in.
All beginnings are hard, said the thief, and began by stealing an anvil.
Communities begin by building their kitchen.
When you begin to understand the situation, you know you must have been ill-informed.
To eat and to scratch one has but to begin.
Never begin a negotiation on an empty stomach.
When you begin a mission, remember aktuh and melota.
When difficulties are overcome they begin blessing.
While we consider when to begin, it becomes too late.
Those who remove mountains begin by carrying away small stones.
The one who removed the mountain was the one who began carrying away stones.
Even the highest towers begin at the ground.
A person who has not secured a place on the floor should not begin to look for a mat.
Begin in time to finish without hurry.
First a daughter, then a son, and the family's well begun.
Liars begin by imposing on others, but end by deceiving themselves.
Deed done is well begun.
Well begun is half done.
A man has a choice to begin love, but not to end it.
He that would the daughter win Must with the mother first begin.
Good to begin well, better to end well.
On the first of march, the crows begin to search.
Fish begin to stink at the head.
Begun is half done.
He who would climb the ladder must begin at the bottom.
Well begun is half done.
For a web begun God sends thread.
He who would be long an old man must begin betimes.
Those who begin many things finish but a few.
Well begun is half done.
Who would make money must begin by spending it.
Think on the end before you begin.
A begun work is half ended.
Better never begun nor never endit.
When the roots of a tree begin to decay, it spreads death to the branches.
When things are at the worst they begin to mend.
Ill begun, ill done.
For a web begun God sends thread.
A good meal ought to begin with hunger.
Love is like war, begin when you like and leave off when you can.
Well begun is half done.
All flute-players are mad; when once they begin to blow, away goes reason.
What raging rashly is begun, Challengeth shame before half done.
"When the rooster dies must the hen begin to sing", said the widow.
Inferior men do not begin undertakings for fear of difficulties. Average men begin, but desist once difficulties appear. Men of superior nature never give up until they achieve their ends, however many the difficulties that appear.
To eat and itch, all you have to do is begin.
Begin with patience, end with pleasure.
To be successful in love, one must know how to begin and when to stop.
It takes two to begin a fight.
From a limb that started sinning, all the troubles began.
He that would the daughter win must with the mother first begin.
Well begun is half done.
A good meal should begin with hunger.
Begin in other people's way so as to end by having your own way.
Beginning is easy – Continuing is hard.
Every meeting is the beginning of a good-bye.
Doubt is the beginning not the end of wisdom.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
Between the beginning and the end there is always a middle.
Better a mistake at the beginning than at the end.
Someone's end is someone's beginning.
When a twig grows hard it is difficult to twist it. Every beginning is weak.
To eat and to itch is in the beginning.
A good beginning is half the battle.
Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle.
Diligence is the beginning of brilliance.
When two paupers get married it is the beginning of a generation of beggars.
A good beginning is half the work done.
If you understand the beginning well, the end will not trouble you.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
In every beginning think of the end.
Beginning and ending shake hands.
Idleness is the beginning of all sin.
Such a beginning, such an end.
A good beginning is half the work.
Food is no more important than wisdom, The beginning of wisdom is the fear of God.
The beginning is the half of every action.
The fear of God is the beginning of all wisdom.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
Secrecy is the beginning of tyranny.
A hard beginning maketh a good ending.
Beginning cruel end good.
At the beginning of january, take the bull to fields of heather.
Concern is the beginning of wealth.
Sloth is the beginning of vice.
The end of mirth is the beginning of sorrow.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
A fool is always beginning.
Trouble is the beginning of disaster.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
It is better that trials come to you in the beginning and you find peace afterwards than that they come to you at the end.
The presence of the doctor is the beginning of the cure.
The first breath is the beginning of death.
The fool is always beginning to live.
The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their right names.
Of a good beginning cometh a good end.
A good beginning is a halfway a battle won.
Anything with a beginning also has an end.
What a fool does in the end, the wise man does in the beginning.
Every day is a new beginning.
Such beginning, such end.
Everything is small at the beginning and then grows; except trouble, which is big at the beginning and still grows.
Make your bargain before beginning to plow.
The beginning of anger is madness and the end of it is regret.
A bad beginning may make a good ending.
To question a wise man is the beginning of wisdom.
The end of wrath is the beginning of repentance.
The end of a feast is better than the beginning of a fight.
The beginning and end of one's life is to draw closer to the fire.
The beginning of health is sleep.
Making the beginning is one third of the work.
Wonder is the beginning of wisdom.
Everything must have a beginning.
What a fool does in the end, the wise man does in the beginning.
Everything must have a beginning.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
Every beginning is hard.
Anything big is small at the beginning.
Love is sweet in the beginning but sour in the ending.
A bad beginning, a bad ending.
It is from a small seed that the giant Iroko tree has its beginning.
God save us from the end of March and the beginning of April.
Even a ball of wool has a beginning.
Some think they have done when they are only beginning.
He has not done who is beginning.
What a fool does in the end, the wise do in the beginning.
Self-knowledge is the beginning of self-improvement.
The beginning of health is to know the disease.
A good beginning ensures a good ending.
The beginning is always difficult, but in the end stands the thank.
Secrecy is the beginning of tyranny.
The beginning hot, the middle lukewarm, the end cold.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
A good beginning is half the battle.
A gude beginning maks a gude ending.
All things hath a beginning, God excepted.
Eating and drinking wants but a beginning.
Everything must have a beginning.
Make your bargain before beginning to plow.
The end depends on the beginning.
The knowledge of sin is the beginning of salvation.
The blacksmith in one village becomes a blacksmith's apprentice in another.
The locksmith is the guilty one, but the blacksmith hangs.
If you talk to the blacksmith you'll get hit by sparks.
No one is a blacksmith when they are born.
If the metal is not good, you cannot take it out on the blacksmith.
A blacksmith has no need of an axe.
Everyone is the blacksmith of his own fortune.
One blacksmith envies another.
A piece of iron can only become what the blacksmith says it should become.
From where gets the blacksmith the knife?
Black miller and white blacksmith are shocking in front of the God.
Close to a blacksmith, learn to hammer out nails; close to a carpenter, learn how to use a saw.
Everyone's the blacksmith of their own fate.
Everyone's the blacksmith of their own fate...Mindenki a maga szerencséjének kovácsa.
Who grudges his blood to a blade had better earn his living behind the plow.
When fate throws a dagger at you, there are only two ways to catch it: by the blade or by the handle.
When a blade has dulled, sharpen another.
A drowning man clings to a blade of grass.
Even the best blade will rust and grow dull unless it is cared for.
The son of a klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade.
The mother is she who catches the knife by the blade.
The tallest blade of grass is the first to be cut by the scythe.
A blade won't cut another blade; a cheat won't cheat another cheat.
He has eaten his corn in the blade.
Most adults are attentive to what someone is doing, but children see beyond that.
Do not allow sins to get beyond creeping.
Without danger we cannot get beyond danger.
There are three creatures beyond ruling – a mule, a pig and a woman.
Don't rest your eyes beyond what is your own.
Beyond mountains, there are more mountains.
Someone who expect to become someone that beyond him.
Attempt nothing beyond your strength.
A person born to be a flower pot will not go beyond the porch.
To go beyond is as bad as to fall short.
Going beyond is as bad as falling short.
Gold has its price; learning is beyond price.
There are many who prefer to despise and belittle that which is beyond their reach.
A person born to be a flower pot will not go beyond the porch.
Cobbler, do not go beyond the last.
Fear may force a man to cast beyond the moon.
Beyond the mountain is another mountain.
Strain not your bow beyond its bent, lest it break.
Envy goes beyond avarice.
My sister's son is a kinsman beyond dispute.
Who aims at things beyond his reach, the greater will be his fall.
The cobbler should not go beyond his last.
He goes beyond the bounds.
Live not beyond your means.
Things beyond our reach are not worth our consideration.
An atheist is one point beyond the devil.
The ignorant think the Self can be known by the intellect, but the illumined know he is beyond the duality of the knower and the known.
With patience you go beyond knowledge.
If while climbing a tree you insist on going beyond the top, the earth will be waiting for you.
Do not let your eye go beyond what is your own property; do not covet what is not yours..
One lives through the day, one never steps beyond the day.
Behind the clouds the sky is always blue.
Turn your face to the sun and the shadows fall behind you.
Don't burn your bridges behind you.
Don't let women who attract attention walk behind you.
Seize the opportunity by the beard, for it is bald behind.
A blind man sat behind a pile of stones and thought that nobody could see him.
Behind every mountain lies a valley.
Although he who walks behind an elephant may feel very secure, he is likely to get splattered with elephant dung.
One who does not look ahead remains behind.
Do not allow the Gypsies to lure you out behind the furnace.
Behind every able man, there are always other able men.
You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather.
Every tear has a smile behind it.
Never stand in front of a judge or behind a donkey.
Behind the dog it is "dog,” in front of it, it's "mister dog.”.
Behind the cross stands the devil.
To put the horse behind the cart.
As stupid as a pig's behind.
He who doesn't look ahead gets left behind.
Beautiful from behind, ugly in front.
Behave like the chameleon: look forward and observe behind.
Roosters' tail feathers: pretty but always behind.
Who grudges his blood to a blade had better earn his living behind the plow.
The sparrow flying behind the hawk thinks the hawk is fleeing.
It is easy to dodge a spear that comes in front of you but hard to avoid an arrow shot from behind.
Do not walk behind us, we may not lead; do not walk in front of us, we may not follow; walk besides us, so that we may guide each other.
Behind every sweaty face of a cattle rustler is a story of determination and courage.
A poor man is always behind.
Beware of the cat that licks from the front but claws from behind.
How great the grandfathers are, but how regretful what they left behind.
Journey and you will find replacement to the ones left behind.
Flatterers are cats that lick before and scratch behind.
You can't hide behind your finger.
Who paints me before blackens me behind.
He who does not look ahead always remains behind.
Behind the gentle barb lies the deadly barb.
The old man looks death in the eye, the young man keeps him behind his back.
His door already has the hard part of the journey behind him.
When you fall behind, you eat dust.
The devil likes to hide behind a cross.
To fish behind the net.
The devil sits behind the cross.
He who is outside his door already has the hard part of his journey behind him.
He who would catch a rogue must watch behind the door.
There are hidden purposes behind an act.
One day before you is better than ten years behind you.
He who has been first a novice and then an abbot, knows what the boys do behind the altar.
The tail and repentance go behind.
They are not dead who live in the hearts they leave behind.
Before me peaceful, behind me peaceful, under me peaceful, over me peaceful, all around me peaceful.
We will be known by the tracks we leave behind.
The place of an uninvited guest is behind the door.
A monkey left behind laughs at the others tail.
Criticism of the brave is behind his back.
The old man has his death before his eyes; the young man behind his back.
If two ride on a horse, one must ride behind.
Bathe other people's children but don't wash behind their ears.
Girl, do not exult in thy wedding dress; see how much trouble lurks behind it.
If you see amber, ambergis is behind.
You cannot hide behind your finger.
A man's heart is indiscernible behind his chest.
An overturned cart ahead warns the one behind.
A hypocrite's hatred is hidden behind flattering words.
A coward always hides behind someone else after he has thrown a stone.
It is sometimes best to burn your bridges behind you.
The face is a mask; look behind it.
For every glance behind us, we have to look twice to the future.
Fire could leave ashes behind.
The sun won't stay behind the cloud.
A man does not look behind the door unless he has stood there himself.
Slander leaves a score behind it.
Even doubtful accusations leave a stain behind them.
The higher a monkey climbs, the more he shows his behind.
He who doesn't look ahead remains behind..
One look ahead is better than two looks behind.
Who laughs at others' ills, has his own behind the door.
After three days the place of the guest is behind the door outside.
The place of an unbidden guest is behind the door.
He is one pamphlet behind, the others.
Behind the mountain are people too.
Advice should be viewed from behind.
I am dead. It is as if everybody were dead. Let the man left behind shut the door if he wants to.
Never approach a goat from the front, a horse from behind, and a fool from either side.
He who is outside the door has already a good part of his journey behind him.
Better walk before a hen than behind an ox.
Take heed of an ox before, an ass behind, and a monk on all sides.
Who looks not before finds himself behind.
They are not free who drag their chains behind them.
Moscow does not believe in tears.
What you see is what you believe.
If men could see the epitaphs their friends write they would believe they had gotten into the wrong grave.
Never tell all that you know, or do all that you can, or believe all that you hear.
Do not tell all that you know, don't believe all you hear, and don't do all that you can.
It is easier to believe than to go and ask.
Only believe a woman one day later.
I believe what you say, i'm only surprised at what you do.
Believe the liar up to the door of his house and no further than that.
See and believe, and in order not to make a mistake, touch.
If you are ready to believe, you are easy to deceive.
Do not believe that you will reach your destination without leaving the shore.
If the fish comes out of the river to tell you that the crocodile has one eye, you should believe it.
The man who has eaten enough will never believe a hungry one.
Few believe to err is human and to smack, divine.
Don't do all you can, spend all you have, believe all you hear, or tell all you know.
Who are ready to believe are easy to deceive.
Tell not all you know; believe not all you hear; do not all you are able.
If you wish to be good, first believe that you are bad.
What I believe in is all that is mine.
You have to believe in Gods to see them.
The full belly does not believe in hunger.
Don't believe in the saint unless he works miracles.
Hear the other side, and believe little.
Believe not a swearing man and a weeping woman.
Believe half what's recounted, the less you believe, the better you'll do.
To believe a business impossible is the way to make it so.
Lions believe that everyone shares their state of mind.
What the people believe is true.
Hear all, believe nothing.
Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear.
For those who believe, no proof is necessary. For those who don't believe, no proof is possible.
When the crocodile says that the river crossing is deep you must believe it.
Until the nail is hit, it doesn't believe in the hammer.
You can worship a sardine's head if you believe in it.
It's better to not read at all than to believe everything you read. The day you decide to do it is your lucky day.
A red-nosed man may be a teetotaler, but will find no one to believe it.
To believe in one's dreams is to spend all of one's life asleep.
Believe your servants but do not listen to them.
Though you don't believe in other gods, you believe in the god of thunder; though you don't believe in medicine generally, you believe in laxatives.
It is better to be entirely without a book than to believe it entirely.
Do not do all you can, do not spend all that you have, do not believe all that you hear, and do not tell all that you know.
No one is more afraid of ghosts than those that don't believe in them.
Easy to believe in heaven's law, but so hard to keep.
Where the young know, is where they believe it's raining.
Faith is that quality which enables us to believe what we know to be at least far out.
It is not as bad to believe a lie as to tell one.
What the people believe is true.
Don't believe your enemy even when he's telling the truth.
If you don't believe in cooperation, watch what happens to a wagon when one wheel comes off.
Never believe the impossible.
Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear.
Believe what you see and not all you hear.
A tear bedews my Delia's eye, From morn till dewy eve; But if you ask the reason why, She can't tell, I believe.
To believe everything is too much, to believe nothing is not enough.
Only believe in the faith of a woman as you would believe in miracles.
The eyes believe themselves the ears believe other people.
Lions believe that everyone shares their state of mind.
To believe in certainty, we must begin by doubting.
The well-fed man does not believe in hunger.
Believe in women as in the weather in April.
We soon believe what we desire.
I can scarce believe you, ye speak sae fair.
Full stomachs don't believe empty ones.
Believe half of what you hear about wealth and holiness.
Believe only a little of what you see and nothing that you hear.
What the eyes don't see, the heart doesn't believe.
The more you know the less you believe.
A finn doesn't believe before he has seen.
Women will believe any lie that is wrapped in praise.
Believe that, and drink some water.
To believe a thing impossible is to make it so.
You do not always have to believe what you see.
Women believe the strangest of lies as long as they are wrapped up in praise.
For him who does not believe in signs, there is no way to live in the world.
Of what you see, believe very little, of what you are told, nothing.
Of your wife and your tried friend believe nothing but what you know for certain.
Don't believe what you see, but only what I tell you.
It is easier to believe than to go and ask.
Quick to believe is quickly deceived.
To believe is easier than investigation.
What people in distress most wish for, they most readily believe.
We easily believe that which we hope for.
Believe him who speaks from experience.
Believe that you have it, and you will have it.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think.
This nation doesn't believe in anything what Russia says. What a terrible danger it contains!
Make sure your blanket covers your feet.
While the blanket is short, learn to bend.
Beware, the enemy lies under your blanket.
His eyes are like two burnt holes in a blanket.
Don't throw your blanket in the fire just because it has one flea in it.
Stretch your feet according to your blanket.
A woman is like a blanket: If you cover yourself with it, it bothers you; if you throw it aside you will feel the cold.
Only stretch you foot to the length of your blanket.
A fat woman is a blanket for the winter.
For a flea he burns the blanket.
A woman is like a blanket.
Never dread the winter till the snow is on the blanket.
One does not burn a blanket to get rid of a flea.
An empty belly hears nobody.
The well-filled belly has little understanding of the empty.
‘My belly thinks my throat is cut,' as the hungry man said.
A fat belly did not invent gun powder.
The belly does not accept bail.
The most extensive land is the human belly.
A priest's belly is made up of several sheepskins.
The belly has no ears.
He who has a back is not beaten on the belly.
If the State is going to fall, it is from the belly.
An empty belly has no ears.
Good news crawls on its belly; bad news has wings.
If the skin of your belly is tight, the skin of your eyelids can sleep.
Don't eat the calf in the cow's belly.
There's no putting off a lie upon the belly.
Promises don't fill the belly.
A hungry belly hears nobody.
The belly warm, the foot at rest.
Ill befal the belly that forgets eaten bread.
A whistling priest has a demon in his belly.
The full belly does not believe in hunger.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
With a full belly it is easy to talk about fasting.
Wha sweet nanny-goat a go run him belly.
Rat belly full, potato have skin.
The hungry belly and the full belly do not walk the same road.
Your belly is not a book.
They are two hands on one belly.
The eyes are bigger than the belly.
Better belly burst than good victuals spoil.
Fine words don't fill the belly.
A hungry belly listens to no one.
It is the belly which daily gives thanks.
Do not allow the belly to make you useless.
The diamond in your belly sparkles on your face.
Eat and take belly, because tomorrow the assistant of the executioner will come to take the skin.
If my belly is of glass, I will fill it with bread and chicken; if it is a closed cellar, I will fill it with cockroaches.
The food that is in the mouth is not yet in the belly.
There is neither wisdom nor courage in an empty belly.
A full belly is not the stomach of a scholar.
A corn swallowed by a fowl will never germinate in its belly.
The belly teaches all arts.
Eyes are bigger than your belly.
Another man's bread will not fill your belly.
When the belly is full the mind is amongst the maids.
The year has a wide mouth and a big belly.
Every one sees his smart coat, no one sees his shrunken belly.
A gross belly does not produce a refined mind.
It is easier to fill a rogue's belly than his eye.
The belly gives no credit.
What is gotten over the devil's back is spent under his belly.
The belly is a bad adviser.
A light belly, heavy heart.
The eye is bigger than the belly.
You cannot reason with a hungry belly; it has no ears.
Fine words don't fill the belly.
A hungry belly has no ears.
It is easy to preach fasting with a fully belly.
Fair words are not enough to an empty belly.
Better belly burst than good meat lost.
Fair words fill not the belly.
He whose belly is full believes not him who is fasting.
If you drink a belly full you'll regret it all day.
A joke must not hit the belly.
To eat much leaves you with a swollen belly.
To seek a woman to the belly.
When the belly is full, the talk is good.
A hungry belly has no ears.
You dance better with a full belly than with a new dress.
A full belly counsels well.
Don't make an oven of your cap or a garden of your belly.
The belly overrules the head.
The belly robs the back.
The bagpipe never utters a work till its belly is full.
A hungry belly has no ears.
On an empty belly every burden is heavy.
The belly is like a judge that is silent yet still asks questions.
A woman's belly is a garden with many fruits.
A full belly is neither good for flight, nor for fighting.
Ran like having the bottom of the belly full of feet.
Butterflies in the belly. - Excitement.
On the belly there is silk, but in the belly - just a click.
All you can tell about a big belly is that the owner has had.
The eye is bigger than the belly.
The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything.
A drunkard is like a whisky bottle only neck and belly but no head.
Do not allow the belly to make you useless.
It is the belly which daily gives thanks.
These youth taught their mother to give birth.
The person who has been a slave from birth does not value rebellion.
Rather than an abatement of her viciousness, a witch gives birth to only female children and witchcraft multiplies .
Give me, mother, luck at my birth, then throw me if you will on the rubbish heap.
High birth is a poor dish on the table.
The pumpkin gives birth and the fence has the trouble.
If luck is with you, even your ox will give birth to a calf.
Birth, ancestry, and that which you yourself have not achieved can hardly be called your own.
Great birth is a very poor dish at table.
At birth your fate is written.
People should be mourned at their birth, not at their death.
Set aside emergencies and help a woman giving birth.
Nobility of soul is more honourable than nobility of birth.
Birth is much, but breeding is more.
Not every sweet root gives birth to sweet grass.
Parents give birth to the body of their children, but not always to their characters.
A loving wife is often blessed with the birth of a tenth child.
Birth is the messenger of death.
Breeding rather than birth.
A dog gives birth to a dog.
An animal that gives birth to a young one in the desert must suckle it in the desert.
The buried do not give birth.
A mother cannot give birth to something bigger than herself.
That you don't give birth too, you let him or her carry a stone on the head.
Of what good is giving birth when later there regrets of disrespect.
Noble birth is a poor dish at table.
The three most beautiful sights: a potato garden in bloom, a ship under sail, and a woman after the birth of a child.
The hasty bitch gives birth to blind puppies.
Birth is the only remedy against death.
The woman who gives birth to a child is like the banana tree that breaks under the weight of its fruit.
One for sorrow; two for mirth; three for a wedding; four for a birth.
The place of your birth is less important than how you live.
That country will I call mine which supports me, not that which gave me birth.
Nobility of conduct is a greater recommendation than nobility of birth.
A cow gave birth to a fire; she wanted to lick it, but it burned; she wanted to leave it, but she could not because it was her own child.
We were many, and grandma gave birth!
Every goodbye is the birth of a memory.
Don't insult midwives as long as you are still able to give birth.
Only three things in life are certain birth, death and change.
I came to the place of my birth and cried, I came to the place of my birth and cried, "The friends of my youth, where are they?" And echo answered, "Where are they?"
I am not dead yet. i can suffer a bit more.
A bit of fragrance clings to the hand that gives flowers.
Bit by bit, in the end it becomes a hill.
Don't respond to a mosquito bit with a stone because you you will miss it and hunt yourself.
Little by little and bit by bit.
A golden bit makes none the better horse.
A little of anything isn't worth a pin; but a wee bit of sense is worth a lot.
The cat bit your tongue.
A dog never bit me but I had some of his hair.
Lickle bit a ram goat have beard an' big dull noh have nun.
A little bit of experience is better than a barrel full of knowledge.
With patience and a bit of spittle, the elephant picks up the ant so little.
Take a hair of the dog that bit you.
It is better to be without a wife for a bit than without tobacco for an hour.
A bit of fragrance always clings to the hand that gives you roses.
Leave a bit of the tail to whisk off flies.
If an insect as ever bit you when you see it, you kill it or run away.
The teeth that cannot move in unison cannot bit a piece of meat.
To spoil a child is to maim it a bit.
Hair of the dog that bit you.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
A hard bit does not make the better horse.
The biter is sometimes bit.
Don't play with the bear if you don't want to be bit.
Once bit, twice shy.
To one who has a pie in the oven you may give a bit of your cake.
It is all one whether you are bit by a dog or a bitch.
Marriage is a little bit like buying melons, you need a little luck.
The dog I bought, bit me; the fire I kindled, burned me.
When the cock craws the heart of a debtor skips a bit.
Better to bit your tongue than biting your words.
In movement, there is blessing.
Haste has no blessing.
It is a blessing in disguise.
God has said, "start moving so that I may start blessing.”.
Every misfortune is a blessing.
A calamity is often a blessing in disguise.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
To remain young while growing old is the highest blessing.
The blessing of having many children has never broken a man's roof.
This grief will prove a blessing.
The best blessing for a good harvest is a pumpkin full of sweat.
When difficulties are overcome they begin blessing.
A warning to the wise is a blessing, to the fool an insult.
Movement is a blessing.
From you motion, from God blessing.
Each child brings his own blessing into the world.
No blessing is bestowed on a secret.
Whoever gossips about his relatives has no luck and no blessing.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
A child is a blessing for any man's roof.
Ye watna where a blessing may light.
Chip neber fly far from de block.
Who is a piece of stick in youth will be a block of wood in old age.
A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood.
Walk sidewise and block the way.
A good dog does not block the road.
A book that remains shut, is but a block.
The block of wood should not dictate to the carver.
The block of wood should not dictate to the carver.
If you can't do the deed, don't block another from trying.
Many stumble at a straw and leap over a block.
Big boast, small roast.
Do not boast about your wealth if you are a father.
Those away from the battlefield boast about their swords.
You may boast to strangers, but tell the truth to your own people.
It is usual of a person found guilty in a trial to boast that he would press his case further.
Boast during the day; be humble at night.
Great boast. little roast.
It is one thing to boast, another to fight.
Boast to a stranger, complain only to your friends.
Never boast -- you might meet someone who knew you as a child.
He who cannot boast cannot succeed.
A man who is putting on his armour for war should not boast like a man who's taking it off.
Bad to do evil, but worse to boast about it.
Boast not of tomorrow, for you know not what the day may bring forth.
Do not boast of a thing until it is done.
A farmer does not boast that he has had a good harvest until his stock of yams lasts till the following harvest season.
He who dies not in his twenty-third year, drowns not in his twenty-fourth, and is not slain in his twenty-fifth, may boast of good days.
Don't boast when you start out, but when you get there.
Don't boast of tomorrow, for you know not what a day will bring.
Do not boast of a thing until it is done.
It is the boast of every juju priest that unless he dies.
A strawberry blossom will not sweeten dry bread.
In winter a fire is better than a muscat blossom.
People are like grass in the field: some blossom, some wither.
A fruit tree that grows in a dung heap will certainly blossom.
Fallen blossom doesn't return to the branch.
Not all the buds on a bush will blossom.
The lehua blossom unfolds when the rains tread on it.
If they are roses they will blossom, if they are thorns, they will prick.
The cherry blossom among flowers, the warrior among men.
A thorn defends the rose, harming only those who would steal the blossom.
If you would enjoy its fruit, pluck not the blossom.
Praise the young and they will blossom.
If the olive trees blossom in April, you'll have enough to collect them with barrels; if they bud in May, you'll have enough to fill a small measure; but if as late as June, you'll only be collecting handfuls.
A plant loses its blossom as soon as it bears fruit.
Praise the young and they will blossom.
The edge of the sword comes from sharpening, and the fragrance of plum blossom comes from the bitter cold.
Family names are like flowers, they blossom in clusters.
Beauty is but a blossom.
Flies will not land on a boiling pot.
The frog likes water, but not boiling water.
Flies don't light on a boiling pot.
He! He! He! You begin with the meal before the water is boiling!
The frog likes water but not when it's boiling.
The busy man has few idle visitors: to the boiling pot the flies come not.
It's no use boiling your cabbage twice.
Flies don't get near a boiling pot.
Sister Nicola said: Don't put the pasta basket in the water until it's boiling.
The palest ink is better than the best memory.
Hunger is the best cook.
The best mode of instruction is to practise what we preach.
The best bed that a man can sleep on is peace.
It's best to prevent than to have to remedy.
The best of mankind is a farmer the best food is fruit.
Hope for the best, expect the worst.
He who divides and shares is left with the best share.
Good brotherhood is the best wealth.
Of two evils, it is always best to vote for the less hypocritical.
East or West, home is best.
The best weapon is the one that's to hand.
He who has not traveled thinks that his mother is the best cook in the world.
The best part of happiness lies is in the secret heart of a lover.
'my mother is indeed the best baby carrier,' says the baby.
Not until just before dawn do people sleep best; not until people get old do they become wise.
An Irishman is never at his best except when fighting.
A good laugh and a long sleep are the two best cures in the doctor's book.
Often the best way of giving oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has.
The best of men are but men at best.
Not everything that's allowed is best.
The best asset is a clean conscience.
It is better to sit down than to stand, it is better to lie down than to sit, but death is the best of all.
Money is the best servant.
Regularity is the best medicine.
The second thought is always the best.
Our best masters are those who make us suffer the most.
Cabbage is best after it is reheated seven times.
Hunger, work, and sweat are the best herbs.
It's best to wash one's soiled linen at home.
The best ointment comes in small boxes.
Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle.
Time makes the best healer.
Hunger is the best seasoning.
The best shortage is a shortage of words.
Best is the enemy of good.
The best of hunters lies more than he hunts.
The clown is best in his own country, and the gentleman anywhere.
If you see your neighbor has lost his beard, you'd best start lathering yours.
The best thing God did was to make one day follow another.
Silk is cut best with old scissors.
The person who has not traveled widely thinks his or her mother is the best cook.
Courage is illusion, balance is the best we can get.
The best fighting is often against yourself.
Often the best way to give oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has.
Time will give you the best disguise.
A wild dog is best eaten when clubbed to death.
The old man gives the best advice.
Consider each day of your life to be the best.
The best horse can't wear two saddles.
A man who always wears his best kimono has no Sunday clothes.
A silent man is the best one to listen to.
Flattery is the best persuader of people.
If you are going out for a fight leave your best hat at home.
The grasshopper which is always near its mother eats the best food.
Since the beggar would come any way, it's best to invite him first.
The people who talk the best are not the only ones who can tell you the most interesting things.
Everyone thinks his own thoughts are best.
If you have not been to two different bazaars, then you do not know what the best value is.
The best way to eat the elephant standing in your path is to cut it up into little pieces.
Enjoy breakfast all alone, share lunch with your best friend and give dinner to your enemy.
Self-help is the best help.
He who laughs last laughs best.
He who boasts of his descent is like a potato: the best part is underground.
Best things in life are free.
By continually striving for the best, one may waste good opportunities.
Welcome is the best dish.
Last ship, best ship.
A man may say too much, even upon the best subjects.
Attack is the best form of defence.
The best payment is on the peck bottom.
The best remedy against an ill man, is much ground between.
Hope is grief's best music.
Men are best loved farthest off.
Truth's best ornament is nakedness.
Time is the best preacher.
My friend's enemy is often my best friend.
Your friend's enemy might be your best friend.
Bought wisdom is best.
The best brewer sometimes makes bad beer.
Time is the best counselor.
Coffee and love are best when they are hot.
Even the best hack stumbles once.
Every cock crows best on his own dunghill.
The best of the mill is that the sacks can't speak.
When a thing is done, make the best of it.
An old broom knows the dirty corners best.
He who is best for me is he who shall get the best share.
May you never forget what is worth remembering, or remember what is best forgotten.
Boil not the pap before the child is born.
Do not put your spoon into the pot which does not boil for you.
Empty pots will never boil over.
Boil the water and the scum will rise to the top.
You will never know the importance of the buttocks, until they develop a boil.
Money makes the pot boil.
Little kettles soon boil over.
If the fool has a hunchback no one remarks about it; if a wise man has a boil everybody talks about it.
Food you will not eat you do not boil.
The day is never so holy that the pot refuses to boil.
I know by mine own pot how others boil.
Fair words will not make the pot boil.
A heavy cauldron takes long to boil.
Do not make yourself so big, you are not so small.
Take a big bite, don't say a big word.
Do not use words that are too big for your mouth.
Fear has big eyes.
You arrive mr. Big shot but leave mr. Nobody.
The stranger has big eyes but he doesn't see anything.
Though the palm tree in the jungle is big, who knows how big its yield will be?
Only when the tree is big and strong can you tether a cow to it.
However big the whale may be, the tiny harpoon can rob him of life.
Big boast, small roast.
Big thunder, little rain.
The world is a big place but there is so little room in it.
Though the snake be small, it is still wise to hit it with a big stick.
The big thieves hang the little ones.
In small churches, small saints are big..
A good conscience is better than a big wage.
A little pepper burns a big man's mouth.
A little axe can cut down a big tree.
Big words won't split ones mouth.
Big fleas have little fleas upon their backs to bite them, and little fleas have lesser fleas, and so ad infinitum.
People seek out big shots as flies seek out the elephant's tail.
He who does not wish for little things does not deserve big things.
If you take big paces you leave big spaces.
The mother of the big he-goat has no horns.
All who live under the sky are woven together like one big mat.
The big fish is caught with big bait.
A big chair does not make a king.
A powerful man has big ears.
One who waits patiently will catch a big fish.
Two small antelopes can beat a big one.
A fool is like the big drum that beats fast but does not realize its hollowness.
If you want to keep camels, have a big enough door.
No matter how big a child is, he cannot deny that he was once carried on the back of a woman.
If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely.
Strike while your employer has a big contract.
Let the big dog eat.
A man is as big as the things that made him mad.
A big tree attracts the woodsman's ax.
The stingy has a big porch and little morality.
The pike grows big on small fry.
A little dog can start a hare, but it takes a big one to catch it.
As the big hound is, so will the pup be.
Big bellies were never generous.
Big men are not the only kind that can reap a harvest.
Those who are born to be small shit never make it to big shit.
Little chips kindle fire, and big logs sustain it.
Big fish are fished in big rivers.
Big walks, big lies.
In a treeless country, the castor-oil plant is a big tree.
He who does many bad deeds can expect a big one in return.
Big mouthfuls often choke.
The big fish eat the little.
Big flies break the spider's web.
Big in the words, small on the ground.
Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow.
When it is spring time, the grass will even grow under a big stone.
That which brings misfortune is not big.
Sinews and big muscles do not make a farmer.
It is when there is a stampede, that a person with big buttocks knows that he carries a load.
From a big cloud comes little rain.
It is better to be a free man in a small house than a slave in a big one.
Lilly axe can cut down big tree.
Nebber mek you sail too big fe you ship.
Lickle bit a ram goat have beard an' big dull noh have nun.
When yu go a jackass yard, yu noh fi chat 'bout big iyaz.
Little children, little problems; big children, big problems.
Who can not be trusted in small things can not be trusted in big things.
What good is a something big that is still needed to be searched, if there is something small that is in your hands?
A heart as big as a house.
You will not choke on big words and pig fat.
Big fish devour the little ones.
Big fish eat little fish.
Big fish spring out of the kettle.
Small pots have big ears/handles.
The big fish eat the little ones.
A big nose never spoiled a handsome face.
His horse's head is too big, it cannot get out of the stable.
A man finds what he takes to be small; it will only be big again when he loses it.
Big in body, but small in deeds.
When big bells ring, little ones are not heard.
Keep adding little by little and you will soon have a big hoard.
Great men have big hearts.
The frog wanted to be as big as the elephant, and burst.
May you be as big as the white mountain.
You do not need a big stick to break a cock's head.
Death don't see no difference ‘tween the big house and the cabin.
A big log is a shame to the fire, an evil person is a shame to the house.
Bump-thump-scratch. It's all on a big man's skin.
A bold attempt is half success.
A bold onset is half the battle.
With houses and gold, men are rarely bold.
Fortune gives her hand to a bold man.
To the bold man Fortune holds out her hand.
The cock is bold on his own dunghill.
The generous and bold have the best lives.
Nothing so bold as a blind mare.
Bold in design, but timid in execution.
The righteous are bold as a lion.
Him with a bold head knows how to protect it through thorns.
It is a bold mouse that nestles in the cat's ear.
A bold attempt is half of success.
It is a bold mouse that makes her nest in the cat's ear.
A bold man has luck in his train.
Fortune favors the bold.
Don't be too bold, or you will burn your eyes; but don't be too slow, or you will lose your share.
Fortune aids the bold.
Fortune favors the bold, but abandons the timid.
A rooster is always bold on its own dunghill .
A cock is bold on his own dunghill.
Don't be too bold, or you will burn your eyes; but don't be too slow.
A bird hanging between two branches will get bitten on both wings.
Better one bird in the hand than ten in the sky.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
A bird in the hand has more worth than two flying.
What is sport to the boy is the death of the bird.
The bird that pecks at a rock trusts in the strength of its beak.
You may well have caught a bird, but have you a fire to roast it on?
It is the softness of the lime that is fatal to the bird.
‘I nearly killed the bird.' no one can eat ‘nearly' in a stew.
Smart bird gets trapped in its beak.
I have” is a better bird than "if I had.
‘so near and yet so far,' said the man when the bird lit on his gun.
A good bird begins chirping while in the egg.
the child and the little bird, God catches the fall.
It's a brave bird that makes its nest in the cat's ear.
A child without education is like a bird without wings.
A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return.
Although the snake does not fly it has caught the bird whose home is in the sky.
Every shot does not bring down a bird.
Every bird sings as it is beaked.
'tis a fat bird that bastes itself.
The first [cup of vodka] goes as a stake, the second as a falcon, and the third as a little bird.
Each bird loves to hear himself sing.
A talkative bird will not build a nest.
A bird in hand is worth ten in a tree.
A chattering bird builds no nest.
If the bird hadn't sung, it wouldn't have been shot.
As though a bird had flown up from under your feet.
The caged bird dreams of clouds.
By going and coming, a bird weaves its nest.
A crab does not beget a bird.
A bird only flies as high as his wings take him.
You talk sweet like the bulbul bird.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
By coming and going, a bird constructs its nest.
The restless grasshopper only finds rest in the gizzard of a bird.
A bird is known by his note and a man by his talk.
The early bird gets the worm.
The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
It's the early bird that gets the worm.
As good be an addled egg as an idle bird.
The wise bird flies lowest.
The bird that can sing and won't sing should be made to sing.
Little by little, the bird builds her nest.
The nest made, the bird dead.
Do not rear a bird of a bad breed.
The bird hunting a locust is unaware of the hawk hunting him.
God gives food to every bird, but does not throw it into the nest.
Catch the bird before you build a cage.
A cage made of gold does not feed the bird inside of it.
A golden cage does not feed the bird.
Better be a bird of the wood than a bird in the cage.
He sells the bird on the branch.
A new net won't catch an old bird.
If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars? If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
One bird in hand is better far Than two that in the bushes are.
Early bird hops further.
Rather one bird in the hand, than ten in the woods.
God gives every bird his worm, but he does not throw it into the nest.
Thou are a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
A bird in the hand's worth twa fleeing by.
Every bird has a hawk above it.
Little by little the bird makes his nest.
Better a free bird than a king in captivity.
The bird leaves no trail.
Every bird relishes his own voice.
If a caged bird isn't singing for love, it's singing in a rage.
Bread and bird: we don't discuss house business.
A bird in the hand is worth ten in the bush.
When a bird builds its nest it uses the feathers of other birds.
Where the bird was hatched it haunts.
One bird in the hand is better than two flying.
Slowly but surely, the bird builds its nest.
To every bird its nest seems fair.
A fine cage won't feed the bird.
A bird may be known by its flight.
You know a bird from the way he flies.
A mute bird makes no omen.
Persevere like a bird in the wind.
To the satiated bird, cherries taste bitter.
The clever bird is easily trapped in the leaves at the edges.
If a bird does not recognise a tree, it will not rest on it.
The corpse of a bird does not decompose in flight, but on the ground.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
A bird flies high above and its funeral is performed on the ground.
A bird of unmindfulness flutters o'er ale feasts.
Bird goes up, bird goes down.
If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars?
We must blame the thief first before we say that where the owner put her property improper.
Those who can't dance blame it on the music.
Wine bears no blame - only the drunkard.
Worthless people blame their karma.
Even as a solid rock is unshaken by the wind, so are the wise unshaken by praise or blame.
Before you begin to trade in blame look in the mirror.
If we blame others for our failures, then we should also give others credit for our successes.
One does harm, and another bears the blame.
If you are to hit then make it painful, because you'll get one blame eitherways.
Blame is the lazy man's wages.
Common fame is seldom to blame.
Nobody is to blame for all.
Who lends his lips to nought but blame, has in his heart no love of fame.
It is easier to blame than do better.
If you cannot catch a fish, do not blame the sea.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not having given it wings.
Adam must have an Eve to blame for his faults.
If you stumble more than once over the same stump, you have no one to blame but yourself.
Everybody joins to blame or condemn a child who overthrows the pot of soup.
All kind of fish eat man, only shark get blame.
Who can escape envy and blame, that speaks or writes for public fame?
When two quarrel, both are to blame.
If your face skewed, don't blame the mirror.
Don't blame your wife's side if your son is cross-eyed.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not giving it wings.
He is not to blame who does his duty.
You can't blame the axe for the noise made by the chicken you are about to slaughter.
Neither blame or praise yourself.
When a yam doesn't grow well, we don't blame it; it is because of the soil.
Nuh name, nuh blame.
Blame yourself as you would blame others; excuse others as you would excuse yourself.
He who has given up doesn't blame the one moving on.
If you want to blame the fox, then blame the hen too.
You can't blame a dentist for looking down at the mouth.
Blame not others for the faults that are in you.
When fools make mistakes, they lay the blame on providence.
The absent party is always to blame.
It should be better to blame friends at a distance.
If you make songs about yourself, you can't blame other people for singing them.
The absent are always to blame.
Adam must have an Eve, to blame for his own faults.
If you don't want to be hung yourself, blame the dog for stealing the sausage.
An ambassador beareth no blame.
Praise gets closer than blame.
To blame the wind for the rain that does not fall.
Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse.
Cannot dance but blame the floor as uneven.
Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse.
Don't blame God for creating the tiger -- instead, thank him for not giving it wings.
You only need good jaws to blame.
When the slave is to blame the slave gets beaten; when the master is to blame the slave gets beaten.
Blame yourself if you have no branches or leaves; don't accuse the sun of partiality.
The black dog gets the food; the white dog gets the blame.
If we blame others for our failures, then we should also give others credit for our successes.
Blame not others for the faults that are in you.
He who is shipwrecked the second time cannot lay the blame on Neptune.
If you want praise, die. If you want blame, marry.
You have nobody to blame but yourself if you stumble more than once over the same stump.
Money covers blame.
Patience is safety, haste is blame.
"with all my heart!” says the boor, when he must.
A doctor and a boor know more than a doctor alone.
The boor looks after a cent as the devil after a soul.
A boor remains a boor even if sleeping on silken pillows.
Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury.
A soldier's no boor though no gentleman either.
An egg is an egg, said the boor, and took the goose's egg.
The nearest boor is the nearest kinsman when the calf lies in the ditch.
Whoever argues for the sake of argument is a boor.
A lie can be halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on.
Without seeing the mountain, do not tuck up your skirt, without seeing the water, do not take off your boots.
Two boots make a pair.
More belongs to riding than a pair of boots.
He that has good legs, has often bad boots.
The man with the boots does not mind where he places his foot.
The devil does not always wear boots - he sometimes comes barefoot.
When it rains in the morning, take the plow and start sowing; when it rains between Vespers and nightfall, put on your boots.
The devil's boots don't creak.
Every poor man has a dry throat and wet boots.
Grease a churl's boots and he'll say you are burning them.
Wear not boots too big for your feet.
Don't judge a man until you have walked a mile in his boots.
A closed mouth gathers no boots.
How could the boots get on the table.
I would not wipe my muddy boots in him.
It's healthier to wear out many boots and few bed sheets.
The tongue of co-wives is bitter.
Patience is a tree whose root is bitter, but its fruit is very sweet.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
Knowledge has bitter roots but sweet fruits.
Bitter fruit will fall before the ripe.
Even honey can taste bitter if it's used as medicine.
The flour tastes bitter to the mouse who has had enough.
False hope kills more readily than bitter truth.
Too much sugar is bitter.
What is not bitter is good to eat.
Good medicine often has a bitter taste.
The devil was good looking at eighteen, and course tea makes a bitter first cup.
Honey is bitter for a sore mouth.
Patience is bitter, but it has a sweet fruit.
Roots of evil bear bitter fruits.
Take the bitter with the sweet.
Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit.
Truth is bitter food.
He who has not tasted bitter, knows not what sweet is.
Who has never tasted what is bitter does not know what is sweet.
The wine is sweet, the paying bitter.
Even truth may be bitter.
A bitter centipede if eaten in a pleasing berry pie will taste sweet.
Vetches seem bitter to the full-cropped pigeon.
Thou are a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
A cup must be bitter that a smile will not sweeten.
Marriage is a lick of honey and a barrel of bitter.
When the cat's stomach is full, the rat's back is bitter.
Playing with fire will eventually turn bitter.
Too much callaloo, mek peppa-pot stew bitter.
A mother-in-law made of sugar, still tastes bitter.
There is no bitter crust to a hungry person.
Honey is often bitter.
Everything tastes bitter to him with gall in his mouth.
Even a sugar mother-in-law tastes bitter.
Cactus is bitter only to him who tastes it.
The truth is bitter and lies are sweet.
To the satiated bird, cherries taste bitter.
The bitter heart eats its owner.
He who eats bitter things gets sweet things too.
Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it.
Jade and men, both are sharpened by bitter tools.
A bitter heart devours its owner.
Those who master to climb trees with their teeth are in better position to tell which barks are bitter.
Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it.
We must take the bitter with the better.
Life is made of two days. One which is sweet and the other is bitter.
When the mouse has had enough the meal is bitter.
Every one finds sin sweet and repentance bitter.
It is bitter fare to eat one's own words.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
Bitter pills may have wholesome effects.
No war is more bitter than the war of friends, but it does not last long.
Don't be too sweet, or else you will be eaten up; but don't be too bitter, or else you will be spitted out.
He swallows the bitter pill.
Thou art a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
False friends are worse than bitter enemies.
Patience is bitter, but it bears sweet fruit.
When the mouse is full, the flour tastes bitter.
To share is sweet, but to pay is bitter.
Do you want to experience real thirst? Then try eating bitter cardoons and roasted fava beans.
The one who has a fever thinks that honey is bitter.
Love, everyone says it's bitter, but everyone wants to see for themselves if it's true.
Love is like a cucumber, it starts off sweet and ends up bitter.
Better a bitter truth than a sweet lie.
Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out.
If your heart is bitter, sugar in the mouth won't help.
Barren corn makes bitter bread.
Cherries are bitter to the glutted blackbird.
Patience is bitter, but the fruit is sweet.
Patience is bitter but its fruits are sweet.
Rather a bitter truth than a sweet lie.
To a depraved taste sweet is bitter.
Sugared words generally prove bitter.
Most bitter are the quarrels of brothers.
When the soul hungers, even bitter things taste sweet.
When the mouse is full, the flour tastes bitter.
To taste the sweet, you must taste the bitter.
"Wha sweeten yu mouth goin bitter yu tail.
Life has become a little less sweet, death a little less bitter, heaven a little more real.
Life has become a little less sweet, death a little less bitter.
The bitter cup we strive to remove from us holds the medicine.
The edge of the sword comes from sharpening, and the fragrance of plum blossom comes from the bitter cold.
The melon seller does not announce, "Bitter melons." Distant water does not put out a nearby fire.
No melon peddler cries, "Bitter melons." No wine dealer says, "Sour wine."
The bitter heart eats its owner.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
"Must" is a bitter herb.
If you can't bite, better not show your teeth.
A bird hanging between two branches will get bitten on both wings.
Take a big bite, don't say a big word.
Dog that barks doesn't bite.
A bite from a loving mouth is worth more than a kiss from any other.
Once bitten, twice shy.
If you are not going to bite, don't show your teeth.
Their mosquito won't bite me.
A dog with a bone in his mouth cannot bite you.
When mosquitoes work, they bite and then they sing.
Once a man has been bitten by a lion, he buys a dog.
If a dog bites you and you don't bite him back, it will say that you have no teeth.
The poor eat meat when they bite their tongues.
If you do not step on the dog's tail, he will not bite you.
I will not bite any dog,” says the shepherd's dog, "for I must save my teeth for the wolf.
He who has been bitten by a snake fears a piece of string.
All bite the bitten dog.
The cobra will bite you whether you call it cobra or Mr. Cobra.
Big fleas have little fleas upon their backs to bite them, and little fleas have lesser fleas, and so ad infinitum.
Never let a hyena know how well you can bite.
A white dog does not bite another white dog.
Flatters, like rats, tickle and then bite.
The teeth sometimes bite the tongue.
The hand you cannot bite, kiss.
A snake that you can see does not bite.
Even a weak lion is not bitten by a dog.
The teeth that laugh are also those that bite.
It's no good trying to bite your navel.
Corner a dog in a dead-end street and it will turn and bite.
A drunken donkey will not remember the monkeys bite.
Having been bitten by a snake, he's afraid of a rope.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
When you cannot bite a hand, kiss it.
He who has been bitten by a snake is afraid of an eel.
Keep to the little ones, and the big ones will not bite you.
When the feed box is empty, the horses bite each other.
There is no cure against a slanderer's bite.
Barking dogs don't bite.
The silent dog is always the first to bite.
Embrace the snake and it will bite you.
Bite the biter.
A dog bitten by a snake is afraid of sausages.
A dog that has been bitten by a snake, fears the sausage.
Let the dog bark at me, so he don't bite me.
A crow won't bite a crow.
Be peaceful yet vigilant - a sheep will bite someone without a stick.
Every dog is allowed one bite.
The dog that means to bite don't bark.
A hair of the dog cures the bite.
With the skin of the dog its bite is cured.
A barking cur does not bite.
A sheep's bite is never more than skip deep.
Even a frog would bite if it had teeth.
A dog that barks doesn't bite.
The unfortunate would be bitten by toothless dogs.
Kiss the hand that you cannot bite.
Check before you bite if it is bread or a stone.
Fish bite best on a golden hook.
When you follow the old man, the dog will not bite.
When a dog bites you, do not bite back.
Marriage has teeth, and him bite very hot.
Who can't bite should not bare his teeth.
A mouse in time may bite in two a cable.
If you care for healing the tooth of a tutsi that he recovers, he will surely bite you to-morrow.
Better a dog fawn on you than bite you.
Hungry flies bite sore.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Dead dogs don't bite.
Starved lice bite the hardest.
The goose hisses, but does not bite.
Warm a frozen snake and it will be the first to bite you.
One wolf does not bite another.
A dog won't bite you if you are carrying a stick.
Dead men do not bite.
When the healthy dog fights with a mad dog, it is the ears of the healthy one that are bitten off.
When a dog cannot bite, it has a bone in its mouth.
If you chase away an ant, all the ants will come and bite you.
Conscience is the dog that can't bite, but never stops barking.
Many lick before they bite.
You must eat an elephant one bite at a time.
Do not step on the dog's tail, and he will not bite you.
Once bitten. Twice shy.
Do not grab your heel until the ant has bitten you.
Even a hare will bite when it is cornered.
The dog that has bitten bites again.
To extend your life by a year, take one less bite each meal.
Once bitten by a snake, he is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope.
Crows are black everywhere.
Even black hens lay white eggs.
For crystal rain falls from black clouds.
If he says yogurt is white, I'll say it's black.
The sooty oven mocks the black chimney.
In the darkness all cows are black.
Every flock has its black sheep.
Not all that is black is charcoal.
Put your hand in your conscience and see if it does not come out as black as pitch.
Once you have been tossed by a buffalo, a black ox looks like a buffalo.
A white piastre for a black day.
A roan horse and a black can travel equally far in a day's journey.
If the goat says it will become a sheep, there will always be black spots on its body.
He who stays near vermilion gets stained red; he who stays near ink gets stained black.
A whitewashed crow soon shows black again.
It is difficult to catch a black cat in a dark room - especially if the cat isn't there.
The leopard that covers its black spots with hamaton dust solution will truly be exposed when the rain season comes.
The zebra told the white horse, "I am white," and told the black horse, "I am actually black."
A black plum is as sweet as a white.
Every bean hath its black.
Literal meaning: Save your white penny for your black day.
Lawyers and painters can soon change white to black.
The devil is never so black as he is painted.
A swan would die with pride only for its black feet.
Out of a white egg often comes a black chick.
By night all cats are black.
February fill dyke, be it black or be it white.
Black christmas, white easter.
Black soil produces white bread.
Black souls wear white shirts.
When you shoot a zebra in the black stripe, the white dies too; shoot it in the white and the black dies too.
The devil is not so black as he is painted.
Beware of a white Spaniard and a black Englishman.
Black hens lays white eggs.
The pot upbraids the kettle that it is black.
A black hen lays a white egg.
Crows are black the world over.
Coffee should be black as Hell, strong as death, and sweet as love.
A white day sheds light, and a black day sheds darkness.
A malicious man is like a coal sack -- black on the outside and even blacker inside.
All poor people ain't black/ and all black people ain't poor.
Black people must stop acting like crabs in a barrel and work together.
Black sheep of the family.
To the white horse the zebra said: 'i am white too,' and to the black horse: 'i am really black.'
A black cow also gives white milk.
Lawyers and painters can soon make what's black, white.
The pot telling the kettle it black.
Pot calling the kettle black.
The devil always paints himself black, but we always see him rose-colored.
Crows everywhere are equally black.
If you sit with us, you will get like us; if you sit beside a cooking pot, you will get black.
If you want to catch a black goat you make haste before it's dark.
Black fowl can lay white eggs.
Every family has at least one black sheep.
Every man has one black patch, and some have two.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
Ye're black aboot the mou' for want o' kissing.
The crow went traveling abroad and came back just as black.
Black will take no other hue.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
Death is a black camel which kneels at every man's gate.
The frying-pan says to the kettle, "Avaunt, black brows!"
"Fie upon thee, how black thou art!" said the kettle to the saucepan.
The pot calls the kettle black.
When a dove begins to associate with crows its feathers remain white but its heart grows black.
Better a red face than a black heart.
There are black sheep in every flock.
Every white hath its black, and every sweet its sour.
Pepper is black and hath a good smack.
A red beard and a black head, catch him with a good trick and take him dead.
Give the white child so that the black child doesn't cry.
A black shoe makes a blythe heart.
Black will be no other Hue.
Look for a black goat while it is still daytime.
You do not look for a black sheep at night.
Black ewe and white ewe: they who die, die, and those who live, live.
She who dances with the chimney sweeper will eventually end up black.
The black ox never stamps on his own foot.
Black as is the raven, he'll get a partner.
Priests dressed in black bring bad tidings, in white they take you to the cemetery.
Kamau who is white becomes black.
Even though it is black, the raven loves its young.
When a miller fights with a chimney sweep, the miller gets black and the chimney sweep gets white.
From the black earth there grows the finest grain.
He is not so much of a devil as he is black.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
Pot, your bottom is black. "Yours is blacker than me."
Death is the black camel that kneels before every door.
Borrowing is like a wedding, repaying is like mourning.
Jizo's face when borrowing; emma's face when repaying.
Before borrowing money from a friend decide which you need most.
Borrowing does well only once.
Scratching and borrowing do well enough, but not for long.
Borrowing brings care.
At borrowing cousin german, at repaying son of a whore.
They bow to you when borrowing, you bow to them when collecting.
Who goes a borrowing, goes a sorrowing.
If you want to know the value of money, try borrowing some.
Disputing and borrowing cause grief and sorrowing.
In borrowing an angel, in repaying a devil.
It is difficult to steal when the boss is a thief.
He who has a boss is not the master of his burden.
A habit is first a wanderer, then a guest, and finally the boss.
The boss said to the servant, when there isn't what you want, eat what there is.
The boss is always right.
Always have sex with the boss.
It never hurts to suck up to the boss.
The man who claims to be the boss in his own home will lie about other things as well.
He who is master of himself cannot tolerate another boss.
Most often a good boss makes a good steward.
In your own company no one is boss.
What the boss says goes.
Fire is always a good maid, but a bad boss.
I can find good in my boss but he is at loggerheads with me.
I can find good in my boss but he is at loggerheads with me.
Don't buy a boat that is under water.
The boat follows the helm, the woman follows her husband.
Water can float a boat or sink it.
If you are in a boat you are more afraid of fire than you are of water.
He that takes the devil into his boat must carry him over the sound.
Both the fast and the slow will meet each other on the ferry boat.
God is good, but never dance in a small boat.
Nodding the head does not row the boat.
He who plunders with a little boat is a pirate; he who plunders with a fleet is a conqueror.
Help your brother's boat across, and your own will reach the shore.
Say what we will, do what we will, the boat goes but sorrily without oars.
The ship does not go without the boat.
To a man wine is like water is to the boat; it can carry him or guzzle him up.
The new boat will find the old stones.
"we have rowed well,” said the flea as the fishing boat arrives at its mooring.
The womb is not a boat, it cannot carry as much.
A boat doesn't go forward if each one is rowing their own way.
A boat that is not tied up will drift along with the stream.
Without oars, you cannot cross in a boat.
Whenever the water rises, the boat will rise too.
Marking the Boat to Seek One's Sword.
The womb is not a boat, it cannot carry as much as a boat.
Life is like a boat you move on when you paddle and stay in the same place if not.
It is good to swim near a boat.
He that is afraid of water, will not get into the boat.
A man without money is like a boat without sails.
One must row in whichever boat one finds one's self.
It's difficult to build a boat plank against the wave.
Who leaves the boat on water is miserable.
The water is the same on both sides of the boat.
From the boat we get to the ship.
Don't rock the boat.
Like the seaweed that clings to each other after each passing boat separates them, so too a family will come together with the passing of each crisis.
A boat stands firmer with two anchors.
Old as is the boat it may cross the ferry once.
You sail in the same boat.
He said: "Woe!" and the boat sank with him. He said: "Alas!" and the rudder broke. The young man said: "Ah god!" and the boat reached its destination.
When you in the Midsummer night, drunk, stand up on your boat to pee, you may see your widow-to-be on the shore."
You must row the boat you're in.
It is the passive resistance from the helm that steers the boat.
It is too late for a galloping horse to stop at a clip; it is useless for a sinking boat to be mended in the middle of a river.
A boat cannot go forward if each rows his own way.
When a trustworthy boat sets sail, Utu seeks out a trustworthy harbour for it.
Big is the fish in another's boat.
Do not commit all to one boat.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
Give a blind man eyes and he will ask for eyebrows.
Tell the blind he is eyeless, and he will get mad at you.
If a man would live in peace, he should be blind, deaf, and dumb.
Bravery without foresight is like a blind horse.
Blind men can judge no colours.
The eyes are of little use if the mind be blind.
A blind man sat behind a pile of stones and thought that nobody could see him.
Love is blind.
Love for something makes a man blind and deaf.
A light is still a light -- even though the blind man cannot see it.
Death is blind.
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
A blind horse goes straightforward.
A blind man swallows many a fly.
A blind leader of the blind.
Love is blind to blemishes and faults.
‘i see,' said the blind man when he was directed on his way.
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
If you go to sleep with the blind, you'll wake up squinting.
If he has seven blind daughters, he will marry them in an hour.
If you enter the city of the blind, cover your eyes.
The blind man is laughing at the bald head.
Choleric men are blind and mad.
What does the blind man know of the beauty of the tulip?
Among the blind, the squint rules.
The rich become deaf and the mighty blind.
Better to be squinting than blind.
Even a blind pig finds an acorn every once in awhile.
A blind chicken will often find an ear of corn.
Blind belief is dangerous.
Love is blind -- but not the neighbors.
The blind person never fears ghosts.
The blind person is not afraid of ghosts.
The tears running down your face do not blind you.
If you open the eyes of a blind man he wants to go back to the darkness.
When you are eating with a blind man, do not touch his hand.
The criticism of a blind man.
If the dog leads the man, the man is blind. If the man leads the dog, the man is married.
When a blind man is happy he gives money to his child to buy kerosene for his lamp.
When a blind man tells you he is going to throw a stone, know that his foot is on the stone.
Men are blind in their own cause.
Blind is the bookless man.
The afterthought is good for nought, except it be to catch blind horses with.
Blind men should not judge of colours.
Blind eyes see better than blind hearts.
Blind hen also finds grains.
The sky is not the less blue because the blind man does not see it.
The air is no less blue because the blind man doesn't see it.
Those that rule must hear and be deaf, must see and be blind.
He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind.
Light is light, though the blind man see it not.
A guest should be blind in another man's house.
A blind man can see his mouth.
It's difficult to choose between two blind goats.
For the blind sellers there are blind buyers.
The Blind hen, when it sees again, wants even to mount the cock.
May God strike the rich man blind by his own gold.
The blind man has picked up a coin.
The worst blind is that who doesn't want to see.
Better be one-eyed than quite blind.
The one-eyes is a king in the land of the blind.
God takes care of a blind cow.
Who is blind? He who can see no other world. Who is dumb? He who can say nothing pleasant about his lot. Who is poor? He who is troubled with too many desires. Who is rich? He who is happy with his lot.
Better cross-eyed than blind.
Blind men have no need to walk.
One blind man followed the other and they both fell into the ditch.
In the country of the blind the one eyed man is king.
There's none so blind as those who will not see.
It is not for the blind to give an opinion on colors.
A blind man is not judge of colours.
If the blind lead the blind, both fall into the ditch.
In a world of blind people, a one-eyed man is king.
In the country of the blind blessed is he that hath one eye.
Love is blind but sees afar.
Lovers think others are blind.
If you are travelling in the blind man's country close one eye.
If a blind man leads another, they both fall together.
The foreign person is blind and the killed person has no chance.
Never whisper to the deaf, or wink at the blind.
A one-eyed person does not thank god until he meets a blind person at prayer.
The one-eyed man thanks God only when he sees a man blind in both eyes.
A man who is trampled to death by an elephant is a man who is blind and deaf.
One-eye man a king a blind country.
Every blind man weeps for his eyes.
A man without a book is blind.
The lame man laughs at the blind.
A blind man may sometimes shoot a crow.
Nothing so bold as a blind mare.
A narrow neck keeps the bottle from being emptied in one swig.
With a bottle and a girl one does not count the hours.
Man no hab gourdy, him satisfy wid bottle.
The cork is always bigger than the mouth of the bottle.
A word of kindness is better than a bottle of vodka.
Many have fallen with the bottle in their hand.
Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden.
A bottle that believes it's cracked to smile it will end up on the dustbin.
He released the spirit from the bottle.
Over the bottle many a friend is found.
A good bottle of wine does not need a cork.
With the help of an "if' you might put Paris into a bottle.
He who pours water hastily into a bottle spills more than goes in.
A full bottle makes no sound; a half-bottle sloshes around.
A drunkard is like a whisky bottle only neck and belly but no head.
With enough "ifs" we could put Paris into a bottle.
Only a fool gets drunk from his own bottle.
Talk of the Devil, and he is bound to appear.
A woman will be twice bound when her chains feel comfortable.
There is bound to be a knot in a very long string.
Where there is sugar, there are bound to be ants.
If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely.
They that are bound must obey.
When one is taking a chicken from its roost, the hen is bound to attack with at least its claws.
Who handles water is bound to get wet.
Where there is honey, there are bound to be ants.
If you live like that, you're bound to come to a bad end.
In a group of many words, there is bound to be a mistake somewhere in them.
A regular fighter who discords peace is bound to be fought by his own anger.
Where the heart sleeps is where you're bound to go at dawn.
Play alone and you're bound to win.
Better walk unshackled in a green meadow, than be bound to a thorn-brush.
No one is bound to do impossibilities.
He danced bound hand and foot.
You're bound to leave some grain when you harvest.
Even a boy can beat a man when bound.
Men are bound by words, bulls' horns by ropes.
Even a child may beat a man that's bound.
When the eye sees you then your bound to go for duty.
The teeth of the puppy are growing, while the old dog is gnawing bones.
He who is late may gnaw the bones.
The dog that digs deepest finds the bones.
When you buy beef, you buy bones; when you buy land, you buy rocks.
Copper begets copper, and not (the labour of) men's bones.
No land without stones, no meat without bones.
If the prayers of dogs were answered, bones would rain from the sky.
Words alone wont break bones.
If the master gnaws bones, what will he give the dog?
An old woman is always uneasy when dry bones are mentioned in a proverb.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me.
An old man is a bed full of bones.
Hard words break no bones.
The tongue has no bones, yet it breaks bones.
A dog is never offended at being pelted with bones.
Hard words break no bones.
A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
A womans tongue cracks bones.
Words have no bones, but can break bones.
Talk of the devil and you hear his bones rattle.
Bones snatched from the mouth of a hungry dog.
He who is late may gnaw the bones.
Cowardly men, healthy bones.
A rosy face in the morning, white bones in the evening.
The plagiarist turns the body inside-out and changes the bones.
Bones and flesh of the martyrs lie buried in earth, but their revolutionary spirit and single-hearted fidelity remain alive.
He who chews two bones at the same time will surely bite his tongue.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will break my spirit.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
When the crane attempts to dance with the house she gets broken bones.
He who comes late gets bones for lunch.
Gnawing on bones is for dogs having teeth.
Fair words break no bones.
Hospitality to the exile, and broken bones to the oppressor.
Aching bones will never kill you.
Alacci, remove the bones and be left with the bother.
For the last-comer the bones.
A tongue has no bones but it can break.
If a dog's prayers were answered, bones would rain from the sky.
The bones for those who come late.
You give hay to the dog and bones to the ass.
Made no more bones.
The bones of Hua and his company are dry in the sun.
Skin and bones and a little dirt between.
To destroy the bones of an elephant, strike them against other elephant bones.
The tongue is boneless, but can break bones.
For those who come late, only the bones.
A troubled heart is a worm to the bones.
For the last comer the bones.
A teacher is someone who ploughs with his tongue to fill his little bowl with rice.
Under his bowl there is a little bowl.
Don't let children or pups get accustomed to your soup bowl.
If you laugh at the bowl, you laugh at the potter.
Life is just a bowl of cherries.
Better than a banquet somewhere else is a good cup of tea and a bowl of rice at home.
A bowl should not laugh when a calabash breaks.
A mouse does not share a bowl with a cat.
More are drowned in the bowl than in the sea.
Love is far better than the poi dish or the fish bowl.
He who is waiting for someone else's bowl often dines late.
What starts with a needle usually ends with a silver bowl.
Before you study Zen, a bowl is a bowl and tea is tea. While you are studying Zen, a bowl is no longer a bowl and tea is no longer tea. After you've studied Zen, a bowl is again a bowl and tea is tea.
Eat to see the bowl, go to see the way.
An open box tempts an honest man.
At the end of the game, the pawn and the king go back in the same box.
When the feed box is empty, the horses bite each other.
Snuff at a wake is fine if there's noboby sneezing over the snuff box.
You must empty a box before you fill it again.
After the game, the King and the pawn go into the same box.
Once the game is over, the king and the pawn go back into the same box.
No put youself in a barrel when match box can hol you.
The best bullfighter is the one in the box seats.
Having no ointment and box why do you pose as hairdresser.
A woman who does not understand by a look of the eye won't understand by a box of the fist.
If he should ask for wine, box his ears.
From there comes talk like from box and every hole.
Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.
Blood is inherited and virtue is acquired.
Blood is thicker than water.
A friend will wipe away sweat but not blood.
No tattoo is made without blood.
The earth is not thirsty for the blood of the warriors but for the sweat of man's labor.
Where blood has been shed the tree of forgiveness cannot grow.
You can't squeeze blood from a rock.
You can't take blood from a stone.
The soldier's blood exalts the captain.
Real fraternity is not about blood, it is about sharing.
Blood boils without fire.
Blood boils without flame.
The idiot who has his eye on your wife is like a blood sucking fly.
We are all flesh and blood of the earth and so will return to the ground as rotten maggot encrusted relics.
Blood is the sweat of heroes.
Your secret is your blood - when you shed it you die.
Who grudges his blood to a blade had better earn his living behind the plow.
If blood is spilt on you before breakfast, you will shed blood before nightfall.
None so keen at the hunting of wolves as the dog with wolf blood.
The goat says: "where there is blood, there is plenty of food.”.
The blood soup made of one palm nut is shared in little drops.
Blood will have blood.
Blood is thick than water.
Blood will tell.
You cannot turn blood into water.
Blood will out.
You can't get blood out of a turnip.
Noble and common blood is of the same color.
Revenge in cold blood is the devil's own act and deed.
'tis the mind ennobles, not the blood.
Like blood, like means, and like age, make the happiest marriage.
A golden plate is worth nothing to me when my blood is spilled on it.
Blood vessels are not cleaned with blood.
Good blood never lies.
You cannot draw blood from a turnip.
It is the blood of the soldier that makes the general great.
Good wine makes good blood.
Laughter makes good blood.
There is no getting blood from a turnip.
Blood will not turn water.
Don't spill blood until the raven has flown over.
Blood follow vein.
Water makes mud, wine cleans the blood.
The blood creeps where it can't go.
Blood is inherited; character is earned.
Blood and water don't mix.
A warrior's blood boils before the fire is hot.
I travel the river of blood.
The memory of you sings in my blood.
Listen to the voice of your blood.
If the qivon is cold, the blood is hot.
A club drenched in blood easily finds its mark.
You cant get blood out of a stone.
Wha' got blood got feelings.
Blood is thicker than water.
A drop of sweat spent in a drill is a drop of blood saved in a battle.
Don't try to get blood from a locust; God didn't put it in there.
Blood is inherited and virtue acquired.
You cannot squeeze blood out of a stone.
You can't get blood out of a stone.
A scholar's ink is worth as much as the blood of the martyr.
When your enemies attack, bathe in their blood.
Give your friend your blood and money.
The nobler the blood, the less the pride.
Blood is thicker than water.
Who bathes his hands in blood will have to wash them with tears.
Reverence ceases once blood is split.
I renounce the golden basin in which I have to spit blood.
The common soldier's blood makes the general great.
He would slaughter a bug to drink its blood.
A slaughter house is not without a little blood.
Experience costs blood.
Good blood will never lie.
Men's skins have many colors, but human blood is always red.
The ink of the scholar is more precious than the blood of martyrs.
The tiger that has once tasted blood is never sated with the taste of it.
The letter enters with blood.
He that does not lie, does not come of good blood.
Like blood, like good, and like age, make the happiest marriage.
Walk till the blood appears on the cheek, but not the sweat on the brow.
Blood is thicker than water.
My blood ran cold.
Blood is thicker than water.
Blood cannot be washed out with blood.
Human blood is heavy; he who has shed it cannot run away.
Love is in blood not in talking.
You can't squeeze blood from a stone.
One cannot draw blood from a turnip.
Don't borrow from a baby-boomer, if you borrow, don't spend it.
If you borrow some chaff from the rich man you have to repay him with wheat.
Don't worry if you borrow, but worry if you lend.
The lazy man who goes to borrow a spade says, "I hope I will not find one.”.
The voice that comes to borrow is more humble than the voice that comes to sake payment.
We do not inherit the land from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children.
The world still he keeps at his staff's end that needs not to borrow and never will lend.
Where the lion's skin falls short, borrow of the fox.
If you know what a dollar is worth, try to borrow it.
Don't borrow someone else's nose to breathe with.
Have a horse of your own and then you may borrow another's.
We do no inherit the earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children.
We do not inherit the earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children.
Quick to borrow is always slow to pay.
Better to wash an old kimono than borrow a new one.
If you borrow from an eagle you will always be looking up in the sky.
One cannot borrow a man's mouth and eat onions for him.
Never borrow, never lend if you wish to keep a friend.
If you would know the value of a ducat, try to borrow one.
To-day must borrow nothing of to-morrows.
Today must not borrow from tomorrow.
Never sleep with a stranger or borrow from a neighbour.
Never marry for money. You can borrow it cheaper.
Don't marry for money, you can borrow it cheaper.
Better buy as borrow.
Better leave something to an enemy than borrow from a friend.
Borrow causes sorrow.
If you want to know the value of money, go and borrow some.
If you want to know what a ducat is worth, try to borrow one.
A losing trade, I assure you, sir; literature is a drug. (George Borrow)
Treat the earth well: it was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children. We do not inherit the Earth from our Ancestors, we borrow it from our Children. We are more than the sum of our knowledge, we are the products of our imagination.
Never marry for money, you'll borrow it cheaper.
To separate the men from the boys.
Boys will be boys.
Boys avoid the bees that stung 'em.
Foolish boys, wise men.
He who has been first a novice and then an abbot, knows what the boys do behind the altar.
Boys and sugar-cane grow up as enemies.
Boys seldom make passes at girls wearing glasses.
A boys best friend is his mother and there's no spancel stronger than her apron string.
If a drum is not made, it is the fault of the master; but if the drum is made and is not beaten, then that is the fault of the boys.
Simo was under the bridge when other boys were revised.
It is the kindness, and not the harshness, in the headmaster's voice that pushes tough boys to cry.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
A book is a good friend when it lays bare the errors of the past.
A book holds a house of gold.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
A good laugh and a long sleep are the two best cures in the doctor's book.
If a fool borrows a book, cut off his hand; but cut off both hands, of the fool who brings it back.
A book is like a garden in the pocket.
There is no book that contains absolutely nothing bad, and there is no book that contains absolutely nothing good.
He is a man as a book.
Education is what you know, not what's in the book.
A wise man without a book is like a workman with no tools.
A book tightly shut is but a block of paper.
Beware of a man of one book.
Never judge the book by it's cover.
A good book praises itself.
To every cow its calf; to every book its copy.
Never judge a book by its cover.
A book whos sale's forbidden all men rush to see, and prohibition turns one reader into three.
Blind is a man without a book.
A man without a book is blind.
Your belly is not a book.
A great book is a great evil.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood.
When you have read a book for the first time, you get to know a friend; read it for a second time and you meet an old friend.
A wicked book cannot repent.
It is better to be entirely without a book than to believe it entirely.
Any book you open will benefit your mind.
Every book must be chewed to get out its juice.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
The best part of a book is not the thought it contains but the thought it suggests.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
A great book is a great evil.
A book is a friend.
Every age has its book.
A book that remains shut, is but a block.
The best place in the world is on the back of a horse, and the best thing to do in time is to read a book.
It is vain to fish without a hook, or learn to read without a book.
The priest to his book, the peasant to his plough.
There's no thief like a bad book.
There is no worse thief than a bad book.
God protect us from him who has read but one book.
There is no robber worse than a bad book.
In a good book the best is between the lines.
What! No star, and you are going out to sea? Marching, and you have no music? Traveling, and you have no book? What! No love, and you are going out to live?
It would be a very big book that contained all the maybes uttered in a day.
God deliver me from a man of one book.
Beware the man of one book.
Fear the man of one book. (Strauss 1994, p. 851)
Let's sing a song from the book with glass cover.
Fear the man of one book.
A book, tight shut, is but a block of paper.
Better to be without a book than to believe a book entirely.
Classic, a book which people praise and don't read. (Mark Twain)
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
Wear the old coat and buy a new book.
If a fool borrows a book cut off his hand; but cut off both.
The book and the sword descended from heaven together.
Michel de Montaigne, Of Liars, Book I, Chapter IX.
Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her brain.
Where there is breast there can be no brain.
If you don't have a brain, join the army; if you don't have rice, use beans instead.
He has his own brain - he can solve his own problems.
Money spent on brain is never spent in vain.
Brain is better than brawn.
Half a brain is enough for him who says little.
When the cock is euphoric, the brain is amnesic.
Ask for advice, and then use your brain.
The heart has eyes that the brain knows nothing of.
Make your brain save your heels.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
Mouth is in gear, brain is in neutral.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
If the brain sows not corn, it plants thistles.
A bettlesie brain cannot lye.
A brain is worth little without a tongue.
Brain is better than brawn.
A salesman has pig's soul, sheep's brain and dog's conscience.
The heart has eyes that the brain knows nothing of.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
Once burned by milk you will blow on cold water.
Blow first, and sip afterwards.
High winds blow on high hills.
Blow, smith, and you'll get money.
The blow is taken on the nose but it's the eyes that cry.
If you forget your worries, the storm will blow over.
If you don't understand it with a wink, you certainly will with a blow.
He who burns his mouth on the soup will blow on a cold fish dish.
He who strikes the first blow admits he's lost the argument.
As long as there is no wind, the tree won't blow.
Winds blow counter to what ships desire.
They are not all hunters who blow horns.
A word and a blow.
Let not him that has a mouth ask another to blow.
September blow soft till the fruit's in the loft.
Whoever stays awake longest must blow out the candle.
Do not blow in the bear's ear.
Never draw your dirk when a blow will do it.
Who has burnt himself with soup will blow on water as well.
It is hard to blow with a full mouth.
If the wind does not blow, the leaves do not move.
A blow from a frying-pan, if it does not hurt, smuts.
A blow with a reed makes a noise but hurts not.
Your highness's blow cannot be parried.
Every man who can blow a horn is not a huntsman.
What has been blown away, cannot be found again.
A blow to another's purse is like a blow to a mountain of sand.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cockerels; bleat in a flock of goats.
Don't blow your own trumpet.
Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant, it is still blown by a man's mouth.
The greatest conqueror is he who overcomes the enemy without a blow.
Ashes will always blow back into the face of the thrower.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
A blow with a word strikes deeper than a blow with a sword.
He must have clean fingers who would blow another's nose.
Half a nose is quickly blown.
When two enemies blow one horn, the third will have to suffer for it.
No one can blow and swallow at the same time.
The wind does not always blow from the same quarter.
Who has a mouth, let him not say to another, "Blow!”.
The first blow is as good as two.
A secret foe gives a sudden blow.
Blow the wind never so fast, it will fall at last.
Let them that are cold blow at the coal.
It's a cold coal to blow at.
It takes more than one blow to fell a tree.
Who falls from height will suffer a hard blow.
Like feathers, words are blown away by the wind.
The promises of love and the smoke of a chimney, washed by water and blown away by the wind.
It is better to blow than burn your mouth.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
The second blow makes the fray.
The first blow is as good as two.
The one with a running nose always wants to blow someone else's.
Make good flour, and do not blow the trumpet.
A blow from a frying-pan blacks, though it may not hurt.
A hungry ass needs not a blow.
The blow falls more lightly when it is anticipated.
All flute-players are mad; when once they begin to blow, away goes reason.
It would blow the horns off a goat.
Trouble nebber blow shell"
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
Better blow hard than burn yourself.
It has been blowing hard--the dirt has been blown into high places.
The anvil fears no blow.
They blow one stone.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
A coward often deals a mortal blow to the brave.
When two dogs fight over a bone, a third one carries it away.
A dog with a bone in his mouth cannot bite you.
What's in the marrow is hard to take out of the bone.
To a dog a bone has more value than a pearl.
He who shares the meat is always left with the bone.
Two dogs seldom agree over one bone.
Bone in chicken, relatives in man.
The dog that trots about finds a bone.
Where there is a bone, there are dogs.
Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bone.
The bone given to you by the king is meat.
It is the wandering dog that finds the old bone.
A bone does not bring itself, it is people that bring it.
You can't teach an old dog how to gnaw a bone.
A tongue has no bone.
A dry bone is never licked.
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone.
Two dogs over one bone seldom agree.
Two dogs fight for a bone and a third runs away with it.
There is never a fish without a bone, and no man without faults.
When herring mauger him bone show.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat.
When you see many dogs at a bone, it's best to make yourself scarce.
From the word of an elder is derived a bone.
A dog with a bone knows no friends.
Anger against a brother is felt in the flesh, not in the bone.
A bone does not bring itself, it is people that bring it.
Impatience with your brother is in the flesh, it doesn't reach the bone.
The good dog never gets a good bone.
When a dog cannot bite, it has a bone in its mouth.
Perhaps you will eat a whole elephant and nothing gets stuck in your throat, and then you eat a fish and a bone gets stuck in your throat.
Don't trust your bone to another man's dog.
You won't get much fat from a dry bone.
Charity is not a bone you throw to a dog, but a bone you share with a dog.
A dog cannot eat a bone tied to a snake.
A juicy bone is useless to a dog with no teeth.
Even two friendly dogs cannot share a single bone.
If you put a bone in the dog's mouth it doesn't bark.
Anger against a brother is felt on the flesh, not in the bone.
A dog that will bring a bone will take one away.
Charity is not a bone you throw to your dog but a bone you share with your dog.
A rag and a bone and a hank of hair.
What is bred in the bone will never come out of the flesh.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat.
An honest man does not make himself a dog for the sake of a bone.
The flitch hangs never so high but a dog will look out for the bone.
Beauty is only skin deep, ugliness goes to the bone.
Throw that bone to another dog.
While two dogs are fighting for a bone, a third runs away with it.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
A dogs broken bone will soon be healed.
This is already a gnawed bone.
Two dogs strive for a bone, and a third runs away with it.
Tongue breaks bone and herself has none.
What is bred in the bone will not out of the flesh.
Lucke and bone voyage.
A fine rain still soaks you to the bone, but no one takes it seriously.
A good dog gets a good bone.
You can't have meat without the bone.
When there's little meat, take the bone.
What is bred in the bone won't out of the flesh.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh.
It will not out of the flesh that is bred in the bone.
Throw that bone to another dog.
He who eats the meat let him pick the bone.
What's bred in the bone will never out of the flesh.
A good dog deserves a good bone.
What's bred in the bone will come out in the flesh.
A good dog deserves a good bone.
Like ants eating a bone.
Measure your throat before you swallow a bone.
Charity is not a bone you throw to your dog but a bone you share with your dog.
Two dogs over one bone seldom agree.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
The dog that trots about finds a bone.
You may get something off a bone, but nothing off a stone.
Two cats and one mouse, two women in one house, two dogs to one bone, will not agree long.
The bone doesn't come to the dog, but the dog goes to the bone.
Although you broke the bone, you did not suck out the marrow.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
Into the mouth of a bad dog falls many a good bone.
A little body often harbours a great soul.
A sound mind in a sound body.
What is said over the dead lion's body, could not be said to him alive.
Whichever hand is cut, the whole body feels the pain.
The body is killed by the mouth.
The lover who gives you her body but not her heart is generous with thornless roses.
Master and servant - both have the same body odor.
The pain of the little finger is felt by the whole body.
The shadow should be the same length as the body.
There's no evil that lasts a hundred years, nor a body that can endure it.
Envy follows merit like the shadow follows the body.
My ka dwells in my body. Insult it not.
The body pays for a slip of the foot and gold pays for a slip of the tongue.
When a tiny toe is hurting the whole body stoops down to attend to it.
The character of a man lies not in his body but in his soul.
If you sit by the river long enough, you will see the body of your enemy float by.
If the goat says it will become a sheep, there will always be black spots on its body.
The sickness of the body is the cure of the mind.
When the heart acts, the body is its slave.
When there is a misunderstanding between the left leg and right leg the entire body falls down.
The shirt is nearer to the body than the coat.
Man without woman, is head without body; woman without man, is body without head.
Where the body wants to rest, there the legs must carry it.
In a healthy body, a healthy spirit.
What soap is for the body, tears are for the soul.
It is an unthinking man who achieves prosperity, and then finds with time, that his body can no longer pass through the door.
It is for saying that he has no time that the monkey's body became over-grown with long hairs.
The soul to God, and the body to the earth.
The soul goes to God, the body to the earth, and belongings to those to whom they should go.
What soap is to the body, laughter is to the soul.
Big in body, but small in deeds.
Your body belongs to the Tsar, your soul to God, and your back to the squire.
When the head acheth, all the body is the worse.
Do not refuse the body what it asks for.
If you want to see what your body will look like tomorrow, look at your thoughts today.
Parents give birth to the body of their children, but not always to their characters.
While alive in rags; when dead in satin to cover the body.
If the camel once gets his nose in a tent, his body will soon follow.
If the camel once get his nose in a tent, the body will soon follow.
He who goes around with his body upright, later on will go crawling.
Your companion's body is beside.
A bath refreshes the body, tea refreshes the mind.
Wisdom is lost in a fat man's body.
The plagiarist turns the body inside-out and changes the bones.
The mind is the emperor of the body.
When the heart is at ease, the body is healthy.
A man need never revenge himself; the body of his enemy will be brought to his own door.
Easier to bend the body than the will.
The body pays for a slip of the foot, and gold pays for a slip of the tongue.
The raised hand cares not for its own recognition, but for that of the body below.
When your leg is sinking your whole body should fill it.
Not everything on the body that swells is a boil.
He that fought the lion must surely have the lion's claws in his body.
To bow the body is easy, to bow the will is hard.
Death is a shadow that always follows the body.
A little body doth often harbour a great soul.
If the camel once get his nose in the tent, his body will follow.
When the wolf's ears appear, his body is not far off.
Eating and drinking holds body and soul together.
Doctors purge the body, ministers the conscience, lawyers the purse.
Sickly body, sickly mind.
A spared body only goes twenty-four hours further that another.
Better a sick body than an ignorant mind.
An healthy mind for an healthy body.
In healthy body healthy spirit.
It is worse to be sick in the soul than in body.
When the head aches all the body is the worse.
Keep your tongue a prisoner, and your body will gang free.
The body of joy is not so big.
Your soul to God, your body to dust, your property to your relatives, because thus it has been found written.
The crooked bannock straightens the body.
Grow old, body, the heart still remains.
You can wash your body but not your soul.
The body is a sponge, the soul an abyss.
Like soap for the body so are tears for the soul.
When goods increase the body decreases.
Three things must epigrams, like bees, have all, A sting, and honey, and a body small.
The body of the pope takes up no more room than the sexton's.
The force which a body at rest exercises on a body in motion impinging upon it.
Pain of mind is worse than pain of body.
If the head aches all the members of the body suffer.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
There's no illness that lasts one hundred years, or body that can resist it.
Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer.
A dead body cannot urge over how it should be placed in the grave.
The key to a healthy body is a good head.
Industry keeps the body healthy.
Draw not thy bow before thy arrow be fixed.
A man without money is like a bow without arrows.
Unbending the bow does not heal the wound.
Poverty won't allow him to lift up his head; dignity won't allow him to bow it down.
People are like plants in the wind: they bow down and rise up again.
If you bow at all, bow low.
A bow too much bent will break.
You will break the bow if you keep it always bent.
You have many strings to your bow.
A bow that is bent too far will break.
Have two strings to your bow.
It is always good to have two strings to your bow.
Truth's violinist is always beaten with his own bow.
It is too late to cry "Hold hard!” when the arrow has left the bow.
Don't overstrain your bow - it may break.
The bow must not be always bent.
They bow to you when borrowing, you bow to them when collecting.
If you have a friend who is a doctor, make your bow and send him to the house of your enemy.
A father without sons is like a bow without arrows.
Draw the bow but don't shoot -- it is a bigger threat to be intimidated than to be hit.
He who governs by his moral excellence may be compared to the Pole star which abides in its place while all other stars bow towards it.
No matter how the wind howls, the mountain will not bow to it.
Wheat stalks heavy with grain learn how to bow their heads.
When you bow, bow low.
Even the high and noble bow before the barber.
To bow the body is easy, to bow the will is hard.
Better bow than break.
A bow long bent at length waxeth weak.
A bow long bent at last waxes weak.
A man without money is a bow without an arrow.
Better bow nor break.
Strain not your bow beyond its bent, lest it break.
Unstringing the bow does not cure the wound.
A bow too much bent is broken.
It is fairer to listen to the string that broke than to never strain a bow.
One should not bow before stupidity merely because it is old.
A bow too much bent will break.
I have a good bow, but it is in the Castle.
Even as the archer loves the arrow that flies, so too he loves the bow that remains constant in his hands.
Why would a man without a bow look for arrows?
Don't draw another's bow, don't ride another's horse, don't mind another's business.
If blood is spilt on you before breakfast, you will shed blood before nightfall.
He who doesn't clean his mouth before breakfast always complains that the food is sour.
Enjoy breakfast all alone, share lunch with your best friend and give dinner to your enemy.
If you sing before breakfast, you'll cry before night.
Breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dine like a pauper.
Marriages are all happy; its having breakfast together that causes all the trouble.
Hope is a great breakfast but a poor dinner.
To sing before breakfast is to weep before supper.
Sing before breakfast, cry before night.
Laugh before breakfast, you'll cry before supper.
A good breakfast cannot take the place of the evening meal.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a poor supper.
Laugh before breakfast and you'll cry before lunch.
Honor buys no meat in the market. Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper.
If you eat it up at supper, you cannot have it for breakfast.
To a Vermonter, a Yankee is someone who eats apple pie for breakfast.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a poor supper.
Laugh before breakfast, you'll cry before supper.
What is sport to the boy is the death of the bird.
You can take the boy out of the country but you can't take the country out of the boy.
A boy isn't sent to collect the honey.
The least boy always carries the biggest fiddle.
"if it is not a boy it will be a girl,” says the fortune-teller.
A boy is better unborn than untaught.
A boy is easier cheated than an old lady.
One boy is more trouble that a dozen girls.
Where distrust enters, love is no more than a boy.
A boy living near a buddhist temple can learn an untaught sutra by heart.
Send a boy where he wants to go and you see his best pace.
A boy may cry; but a man as to conceal his pain.
A short man is not a boy.
In the boy see the man.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
A lazy boy and a warm bed are difficult to part.
One for sorrow, two for joy, three for a girl, four for a boy, five for silver, six for gold, and seven for a secret that must never be told.
It is always the potato of another family's boy that extinguishes the fire.
Never send a boy to do a man's job.
What boy one begs for, the man throws away.
Two boys are half a boy, and three boys are no boy at all.
The boy is father to the man.
Trust not a sword in the hands of a boy.
Even a boy can beat a man when bound.
A beardless boy would teach old men!
What's such child who doesn't do damage worth five marks a day - a boy may do worth one hundred.
See how the boy is with his sister and the other ones of his home lodge and you can know how the man will be with your daughter.
A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does: If he does not wash his hands, he is accused of being dirty. If he washes his hands, he is accused of wasting water.
A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does:.
A boy is better unborn than untaught.
In the boy see the man.
Jack a dull boy.
I took the abandoned boy to be my son, but he became my husband.
The boy ain't drunk but has slippery shoes.
Mother raises the boy, woman makes the man.
One who enters a forest does not listen to the breaking of the twigs in the brush.
You can't get at the precious sago without first breaking the bark.
Don't be breaking your shin on a stool that's not in your way.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse for breaking it.
A person always breaking off from work never finishes anything.
Breaking her hip is the old woman's fault.
After breaking my head you bring plaister.
You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs.
You cannot eat nuts without breaking some shells.
There is no making pancakes without breaking the eggs.
The developments have led to the breaking if bread.
The breaking of a betrothal is no small matter.
You cannot make an omelet without breaking eggs.
You can't make pancakes without breaking eggs.
You can't make a hockey team without breaking a few legs.
Cowboys don't walk round calling themselves cowboys.
Cowboys don't go around breaking hearts.
Where there is breast there can be no brain.
The mother's breast cannot get leprosy.
Looking at a king's mouth one would never think he sucked his mother's breast.
Even if a chef cooks just a fly, he would keep the breast for himself.
One beats one's breast who does not beat one's child.
A chicken sees the snake's foot and a snake sees the chicken's breast.
Two hands upon the breast, and labour is past.
The baby that refuses its mother's breast, will never be full.
A woman who runs holding her breast has got nothing pursuing her.
It takes a breast for a child to know it's mother and it takes a mother for a child to know its father.
Conceived by no father, conceived by no mother, the reed came out of the breast of the storm.
The baby that refuses its mother's breast, will never be full.
He who has bitter in his breast spits not sweet.
Who is brave enough to tell the lion that his breath smells?
You must have crossed the river before you may tell the crocodile he has bad breath.
The breath of others always stinks.
Great look but bad breath.
He is too idle to fetch his breath.
The vulture embraced the chicken until its last breath.
Take a breath of the new dawn and make it a part of you.
The first breath is the beginning of death.
A heart that is rotten -- breath that smells.
Life is your ability to breath out every time you breathe in.
There's always a deep breath before a plunge.
One man's breath another's death.
Keep your breath to cool your crowdie.
Man is like a breath, his days like a passing shadow.
There's no catching trouts with dry breeches.
To find oneself in tight breeches.
You can't catch trout with dry breeches.
Unaccustomed to wear them, he displays the breeches he has on to every one he meets.
Where the woman wears the breeches, she has a good right to them.
A gentlemen of Beauce who stays in bed till his breeches are mended.
Wine wears no breeches.
When a man is not used to breeches the seams gall him.
Trouts are not caught with dry breeches.
The sack of longing has no bottom.
Nobody knows the mysteries which lie at the bottom of the ocean..
Every tree casts shadow on its own bottom.
I've seen your top, i've seen your bottom also.
Taking out without putting in, soon comes to the bottom.
At the bottom of patience is heaven.
Coffee from the top of the cup and chocolate from the bottom.
Even the bottom of a basket finds something to hold.
At the bottom of the sack you will find the bill.
At the bottom of the lighthouse it is dark.
Cover your head, and not cover your bottom.
If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely.
The best payment is on the peck bottom.
Truth has always a sure bottom.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
'tis too late to spare, when the bottom is bare.
Truth lies at the bottom of a well.
Let not the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.
The beggar's wallet has no bottom.
Your bottom is fattier and dropping down to the fire.
A noh siame diay leaf drop a river bottom it rotten.
Life is like a wheel, sometimes at the top, sometimes at the bottom.
Who drinks till bottom, lives without mind.
Always taking out and never putting in, soon reaches the bottom.
By always taking out and never putting in, the bottom is soon reached.
Every top stands on its own bottom.
What sweetens goat mout does burn e bottom.
His opinions are like water in the bottom of a canoe, going from side to side.
Do not gaze at the sky from the bottom of a well.
A tree climber begins from the bottom not the top.
A man who touches the bottom of a soup plate with a ball of foofoo is no longer searching for soup.
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.
If thou canst not see the bottom, wade not.
When a man is in a sack, he must get out at the mouth or at the bottom.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
Do not wade where you can see no bottom.
Do not ship all in one bottom.
He who would climb the ladder must begin at the bottom.
Don't sell eggs in the bottom of hens.
Don't cross the water unless you see the bottom.
Never let the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.
Never reveal the bottom of your purse or the depth of your mind.
One cannot sit in two saddles having one arse/bottom only.
It is below the bottom of a frog.
The child's bottom and April weather arre not to be trusted.
If ye dinna see the bottom, dinna wade.
If you don't see the bottom, don't wade.
Flog my erring child comes from the lips, "don't hurt him/her" comes from the bottom of the heart.
The bottom of wealth is sometimes a dirty thing to behold.
The world is a wheel, there are some at the top and some who go to the bottom.
The choice oil is from the surface, the best wine is from the middle, and the best honey is from the bottom.
By cultivating bottom land, you gain sustenance and goods.
It is easier to get away from the back than the bottom.
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.
Taking out and not putting in soon reaches the bottom.
The world is a round gulf, and he who cannot swim must go to the bottom.
Said the frying pay to the kettle, Stand off, black bottom.
Ran like having the bottom of the belly full of feet.
At the bottom of patience there is heaven.
Spare at the brim, not at the bottom.
Let every vat stand upon its own bottom. (William Bullein)
No mischief but a woman or a priest is at the bottom of it.
It is easy to find the rod when another finds the bottom.
In much talk there is much bottom, inferior matter.
Truth lies at the bottom of a well.
Courage cannot be bought at the inn.
The woman had no problems so she bought some pigs.
He who owes nothing has bought nothing on layaway.
Do not judge a man by the whiteness of his turbin, soap is bought on credit.
Sell what you have bought while the dust is still on your shoes.
If power can be bought then sell your mother to get it.
The goat says: "they bought my mother, not i.”.
What is got by begging is dearly bought.
Bought wisdom is best.
You can buy 'em but they don't stay bought.
That costs dear which is bought with begging.
Everything may be bought except day and night.
I sell it for what I bought it.
An ounce of wit that's bought Is worth a pound that's taught.
A pig bought on credit grunts all the year.
A pig bought on credit is forever grunting.
I bought the nettle, sowed the nettle, and then the nettle stung me.
Love can neither be bought or sold, its only price is love.
An inch of time cannot be bought with an inch of gold.
Never dump your old pot just because you have bought a new one.
When you buy friends with anything other than friendship, they do not stay bought long.
Bought friends are not friends indeed.
Bought friends are not friends indeed.
He sold his vinyard and bought a squeezer.
Peace and a well-built house cannot be bought too dearly.
Peace must be bought even at a high price.
Bought wit is best.
Love cannot be bought or sold its only price is love.
Nobody ever bought peace but the man who hadn't got it.
What is bought is cheaper than a gift.
Love is the true price at which love is bought.
Honesty may be dear bought, but can never be an ill pennyworth.
It is dear bought honey that is lickt off a thorn.
Kindnesse cannot be bought for geir.
Far fought, and dear bought, is good for Ladies.
Liked geir is half bought.
Wit bought is the wit best, if it be not bought too dear.
Women and cloth should not be bought in the evening.
Bought things do not fill the granary.
Far fetched and dear bought is meat for ladies.
Don't be fooled by how clean the turban is, the soap was probably bought on credit.
Wit's never bought till it's paid for.
Women, melons, and cheese are bought by the weight.
The dog I bought, bit me; the fire I kindled, burned me.
Even gold can be bought too dearly.
Buy friendship wi' presents, and it will be bought frae you.
A friend that you buy with presents, will be bought from you.
A beard signifies lice, not brains.
A handfull of patience is worth a bushel of brains.
Your aspirations are in heaven, but your brains are in your feet.
There are many witty men whose brains can't fill their bellies.
The mob has many heads, but no brains. (1732)
Where God bestows an office, he provides brains to fill it.
Much laughter, little brains.
The world is governed with little brains.
Every one gives himself credit for more brains than he has, and less money.
He who has not been given brains from above will not buy them at the apothecary.
He who at thirty has no brains, will never purchase an estate.
One ounce of good luck is better than a ton of brains.
The brains don't like in the beard.
The brains of a fox will be of little service if you play with the paw of a lion.
The greatest poorness is the lack of brains.
Luck in the sky and brains in the ground.
He who climbs a ladder, must have his brains in his feet.
Brains are not to be found in the beard.
Every one thinks he has more than his share of brains.
The head grey, and no brains yet.
When you have brains to go along with your wealth you can call yourself happy and content.
You are ushered in according to your dress; shown out according to your brains.
When brains are needed, brawn won't help.
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.
Long on hair, short on brains.
Long whiskers cannot take the place of brains.
He who deals with a blockhead will need a lot of brains.
Idle brains are the devil's workshop.
All the brains are not in one head.
The brains don't lie in the beard.
When brains are needed, brawn won't help.Yiddish Proverbs
When brains are needed, brawn won't help.
The real owners of the land are not yet born.
Poets are born, not made.
A man who develops himself is born twice.
Do not make the dress before the child is born.
The fetus that is afraid of criticism is never born.
Friendship is not born of words alone.
The farmer is a born philosopher, the aristocrat has to learn how.
The baby has not been born yet, and yet you assert that his nose is like his grandfather's.
The baby is not yet born, and yet you say that his nose is like his grandfather's.
Ask which was born first, the hen or the egg.
Boil not the pap before the child is born.
Woman was born three days earlier than the devil.
He who has no faults is not born.
He who is born a mule can never be a horse.
No child was ever born without having been conceived.
It is easy to be born, it is difficult to be a human being.
He that will have no trouble in this world must not be born in it.
If you were born lucky, even your rooster will lay eggs.
We were born to die anyhow.
The mule wasn't born wild, the stick made her that way.
He who was born for a small loaf, will never own a big one.
If you are born fat you will not die thin.
A learned man is twice born.
Don't give a child a name until after it is born.
We will be grateful to flowers only if they have born fruits.
No matter if the child's born with a flat nose, as long as it breathes.
There are two kinds of perfect people: those who are dead, and those who have not been born yet.
The unborn baby that fears criticism will never be born.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live you life in a manner so that when you die the world cries and you rejoice.
If you were born to be shot, you'll never be hung.
Yorkshire born and Yorkshire bred, strong in the arm and weak in the head.
There's one born every minute.
There's a fool born every minute – and every one of them lives.
Only those who were born to hang are not afraid of the water.
A Joke may have children born.
He who is born in jail loves jail.
Those who are born to be small shit never make it to big shit.
From dissension, the light is born.
Those who are born to pennies never make it to pounds.
When a girl is born it is like having six thieves invade the house.
Who is born a fool is never cured.
When your devil was born, mine was going to school.
He who is meant to be a basket-carrier is born with the handle in his hand.
She who is born a beauty is born betrothed.
A rat is not born a rabbit.
When it's raining and the sun shines -- then a Turk is born.
The calf isn't even born yet and there he is sharpening his carving knife.
White elephant born in the forest.
I was wise once, when I was born I cried.
No one is born and no one dies before their time.
They who are born of chickens scratch the earth.
If it's not your time, you won't be born and you won't die.
Who is born stupid will die stupid.
No one is a blacksmith when they are born.
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned.
They are flies that are born of a wasp.
Wisdom is born; stupidity is learned.
It matters less to a person where they are born than where they can live.
Alas! father, another daughter is born to you.
I cried when I was born and as each day passes I know why.
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned. You can't escape your destiny.
One is born, one dies; the land grows.
A person born to be a flower pot will not go beyond the porch.
You are not born a leader, you become one.
In death, I am born.
Klingons are born to fight and conquer.
The buffalo does not wander from the marsh where it was born.
A poet is born not made.
As soon as man is born he begins to die.
The one who pleased everybody died before they were born.
Some people are born hammers, others anvils.
The place where you are happy is better than the place you were born.
Kinsmen are born, but friendship is a gift of the Gods.
He who eats with you will not die with you except he who was born with you.
A dying man discovers the honesty with which he was born.
Do not confine your children to your own learning, for they were born in another time.
Everything in the past died yesterday, and everything in the future is born today.
All the past died yesterday; the future is born today.
The war horses are born on the frontiers.
You cannot name a child that is not born.
He who is born a fool is never cured.
One is born, one dies; the land increases.
It's wise to do what you're born to do.
Where your mother is born, you can't call anyone a child.
There's a fool born every minute.
Many a flower is born to blush unseen.
He who is born a fool is never cured.
What a man can be is born with him; what he becomes is a result of his environment.
Better one hazel grouse in the bag, than ten on the branch.
A person who misses a chance and the monkey who misses its branch -- both cannot be saved.
The butterfly who settles on a branch is afraid that he will break it.
A young branch can be straightened, a mature one breaks.
Often a branch is broken off the tree by the one who has rested in its shadow.
Fallen blossom doesn't return to the branch.
I would like to break off the flower, but the branch is too high.
The rabbit that dances on the broken branch of a high tree must look down to see how many mouths are opened wide beneath.
The wet branch burns better than the dry stone.
He sells the bird on the branch.
Who loves the tree loves the branch.
Woe to him who sits upon a branch.
A gold branch with a jade leaf.
Always exist branch grabbers, when exist fir-tree haulers.
You shake in vain the branch that bears no fruit.
All monkeys cannot hang on one branch.
The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch.
A sparrow in the hand is better then a pigeon on the branch.
The monkey knows which branch to swing on.
A fallen blossom never returns to the branch.
No branch is better than its trunk.
The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch.
The old branch breaks when it is bent.
The highest branch is not the safest roost.
A poor man is pulled even by the branch of a tree.
You shouldn't saw off the branch you're sitting on.
God finds a low branch for the bird that cannot fly.
Who takes cover under the branch, collects what rains and collects what falls.
A branch of ‘mutundu' does not hinder the division of a field.
Two nightingales do not sing on one branch.
If there is someone to haul the fir-tree, there shall be no shortage of those willing to hold a branch to help.
He who hangs out a branch wants to sell his wine.
God finds a low branch for the bird that cannot fly.
A bird cannot roost but on one branch.
Never take to sawin' on the branch that's supportin' you-unless you're bein' hung from it.
Не that loves the tree, loves the branch.
The branch must be bent early that is to make a good crook.
The highest branch is not the safest roost.
Poverty is no sin, but it is a branch of roguery.
A man without religion is a horse without a bridle.
Take a horse to the knacker, and throw in bridle and saddle.
A man is no more encumbered by his soul than the steed by his bridle or the lake by the swan.
Take a horse by his bridle and a man by his word.
An old mule with a golden bridle.
If three people say you are an ass, put on a bridle.
When three people call you an ass, put on a bridle.
A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture.
He's a wise man that leads passion by the bridle.
Prosperity lets go the bridle.
A boisterous horse must have a rough bridle.
A gilt bridle for an old mule.
It is always well to keep hold of your horse's bridle.
A man devoid of religion is like a horse without a bridle.
He has gotten a bite of his ain bridle.
It is pleasant enough going afoot when you lead your horse by the bridle.
The key that is used grows bright.
Barnaby bright, Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night.
A gowk at yule'll no be bright at beltane.
Look on the bright side.
If Candlemas day be sunny and bright, winter will have another flight; if Candlemas day be cloudy with rain, winter is gone and won't come again.
Barnaby bright, Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night.
May you have a bright future – as the chimney sweep said to his son.
Bright enough in the dark, dull in time of day.
The eyes are like stars of the sky, not so bright, but as far away from each other.
It's so bright white like the conscience of an angel.
Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night.
However bright the sun may shine, leave not your cloak at home.
Bright enough in the dark, dull in time of day. [Learned in what is of no use, ignorant of everything at all available.].
A kind word never broke anyone's mouth.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
The jar broke and the wine spilled.
It's often a man's mouth broke his nose.
A good word never broke a tooth.
There is no one who became rich because he broke a holiday, and no one who gained weight because he broke a fast.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
It was the last straw that broke the camel's back.
He fasted for a whole year and then broke his fast with an onion.
A skade mans head is soon broke.
A broke merchant counted his small change.
I broke my leg, perhaps for my good.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
He said: "Woe!" and the boat sank with him. He said: "Alas!" and the rudder broke. The young man said: "Ah god!" and the boat reached its destination.
It is fairer to listen to the string that broke than to never strain a bow.
Although you broke the bone, you did not suck out the marrow.
It was the last straw that broke the camel's back.
Don't cross the brook for water.
Better to dam the brook than the creek.
Let me get over the lake, and I will have no fear of the brook.
The shallower the brook, the more it babbles.
To forget one's ancestors is to be a brook without a source, a tree without a root.
It is easier to stem the brook than the river.
Many shun the brook, and fall into the river.
Don't celebrate until you are across the brook.
The elders of the council do not jump over a brook.
The elders of the council do not jump over a brook.
A new broom sweeps in a new way.
A broom is sturdy because its strands are tightly bound.
Sweep the house with a broom in may and you'll sweep the luck of the house away.
A bad broom leaves a dirty room.
An old broom knows the corners of the house.
An old broom knows the dirty corners best.
A new broom sweeps clean, but the old brush knows all the corners.
A new broom is good for three days.
A new broom sweeps well.
New broom sweep clean, but de ole broom know de corner.
She hangs out the broom.
A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows the corners.
Wine is the best broom for troubles.
A new broom sweeps well, but the old broom knows all the corners.
A new broom sweeps clean, but an old one scrapes better.
He who buys the broom can also buy the handle.
Death is God's broom.
A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows every corner.
If it were God's will, you could shoot with a broom too.
The first wife is a broom, and the second a lady.
A new broom sweeps well the house.
A bad broom leaves a dirty room.
Breed up a serpent and he will strike when you are in deep slumber.
The egg teaches the chicken how to breed.
One does not breed a good bitch in her first heat.
A leopard's spots: or, what is bred in the babe will come out in the flesh.
A fair wife and a frontier castle breed quarrels.
Yorkshire born and Yorkshire bred, strong in the arm and weak in the head.
As sluttish and slatternly as an Irishwoman bred in France .
It is often that a cow does not take after its breed.
Do not rear a bird of a bad breed.
Whoever wants honey must breed bees.
He who has no pond must not breed crocodiles.
Small matters breed important ones.
What is bred in the bone will never come out of the flesh.
Breed up a crowand he will tear out your eyes.
A horse of good breed is not dishonored by his saddle.
Eagles do not breed doves.
Often a cow does not take after its breed.
A falcon will not breed a dove.
Ye breed of the cat, ye would fain have fish, but ye have na will to wet your feet.
Ye breed of the gouk, ye have not a rime but ane.
Ye breed of the Millers dog, ye lick your lips ere the poke be open.
It is ill to bring out of the flesh that is bred in the bene.
Beggars breed and rich men feed.
What is bred in the bone won't out of the flesh.
It will not out of the flesh that is bred in the bone.
Women's jars breed men's wars.
What's bred in the bone will never out of the flesh.
What's bred in the bone will come out in the flesh.
Female quarrels breed court cases.
Old reckonings breed new disputes.
Boil stones in butter, and you may sip the broth.
Cold broth hot again, that loved I never; Old love renew'd again, that loved I ever.
The broth is cooking, and now we have to act as one.
If it's wrong to eat the devil, it's wrong to drink his broth.
As good eat the devil as the broth he was boiled in.
Many cooks spoil the broth.
Fox's broth, cold and scalding.
As the meat, so its broth.
In a perch is no broth, in a foolish person is no wisdom.
Old hens make good broth.
Good broth may be made in an old pot.
Hot broth softens hard bread.
Use the chicken for broth and the pullet for its meat.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Tripe broth, you make much of yourself.
Every cook praises his own broth.
A building of sand falls as you build it.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?
A tender bamboo cannot be eagerly desired for building.
If you are building something and a nail breaks, should you stop building altogether, or should you change the nail?
An hour may destroy what an age was building.
Building castles in the air.
Building the fence, when the cows are all stole.
You can stop a bird from flying over you, but you can't stop it building a nest.
Communities begin by building their kitchen.
If the building of a nest were easy, would the little "apatipers" bird roost in the fork of a tree?
You cannot prevent the birds of sorrow from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from building nests in your hair.
Pouring water from above the roof of a tall building.
If you don't mend up a small crack on the wall you end up building the entire wall.
You can't keep the birds from flying over your head, but you can keep them from building a nest in your hair.
No good building without good foundation.
Building and marrying of children are great wasters.
He who did not help building the minaret, thinks that it just grew out from the ground.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?
The world is like an old building on the banks of a stream – it carries away piece by piece; in vain you stop it with a handful of earth.
Fortune favours the brave.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
In the home of the coward they laugh while in the home of the brave they cry.
It's a brave bird that makes its nest in the cat's ear.
A brave man will face a situation no matter how dreadful.
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times.
The brave one lives as long as the cowards lets him.
The brave man lives until the coward wants.
One can't die if he's brave. Even when he die his name lasts forever.
You can be a king, if you are brave.
You fail if you're afraid. Or brave, you may become a king.
Who is brave enough to tell the lion that his breath smells?
Not all brave words become deeds.
A wise man does not lose his way, a brave man does not fear.
Earth belongs to the brave but heaven to those who deserve it.
The brave man is not he who doesn't feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear.
Fools enter where brave men fear to tread.
A brave man seldom is hurt in the back.
All are brave when the enemy flies.
Luck belongs to the brave.
The brave have all the luck.
Charms do not perform miracles on the shelf; they perform for those who are brave.
Many become brave when brought to bay.
Fortune favours the brave.
A brave man is scared of a lion three times: first when he sees the tracks; second when he hears the first roar; and third when they are face to face.
To-day stately and brave, to-morrow in the grave.
Against change of fortune set a brave heart.
And old rat is a brave rat.
A short sword for a brave man.
Brave men lived before Agamemnon.
Be brave where bravery is honorable.
Criticism of the brave is behind his back.
Always it is the brave ones who die.
Some have been thought brave because they didn't have the courage to run away.
Mr. Not-present was the brave man.
The brave person regards dying as just going home.
Sudden frightening occurrence knows no brave person.
A scared dog barks to pretend to its master but a brave dog bits to protect him.
It's more brave to live than to die.
A brave man dies but once, a coward many times.
To threaten the brave with death is like promising water to a duck.
The weak warrior wearing sandals overcomes the brave with a thorn in his foot.
A brave man who climbs trees is food for their roots.
He who would gather honey must brave the sting of bees.
Who is brave eats two.
Seek the brave in prison and the stupid among the clergy.
The brave is known by his fame.
It little avails the unfortunate to be brave.
Be brave, not ferocious.
Fortune smiles on the brave, and frowns upon the coward.
The brave man may die, but he will never say "die."
Fortune favours the brave.
A brave dies but once - a coward many times.
"Namibia, Land of the Brave” is the national anthem of Namibia.
Many become brave when the fiend flees.
A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times.
A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times.
Fools enter where brave men fear to tread.
Some have been thought brave because they were afraid to run away.
No man is brave in the presence of a crying woman.
A brave man is scared of a lion three times:.
Buffaloes are held by ropes, man by his words.
One muddy buffalo makes the whole herd dirty.
Whose stick, his buffalo.
The fly on the back of a water buffalo thinks that it's taller than the buffalo.
The fat buffalo will attract the lean buffalo.
What is good for the buffalo is good for the cow.
The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass.
The chained buffalo doesn't enjoy grazing.
If you enter a goat stable, bleat; if you enter a water buffalo stable, bellow.
If there were no elephant in the jungle, the buffalo would be a great animal.
The buffalo does not wander from the marsh where it was born.
A crow does not louse the buffalo to clean him but to feed himself.
When the poor man's buffalo calves every one runs with his pail (for milk).
When husband and wife live in harmony, they can dry up the ocean without a bucket.
The bucket goes down the well every day - some day it won't come up again.
You should make a new bucket whilst you still have the old one.
Two rams cannot drink from the same bucket at the same time; they will lock horns.
One good word puts out the flames better than a bucket of water.
The bucket goes so often to the well that it leaves its handle there.
It is not necessary to fish up every bucket that falls into the well.
Like well like bucket.
One good word quenches more heat than a bucket of water.
When the river is filled, Be quick to fetch some into your bucket.
The bucket goes down the well every day -- some day it won't come up again.
He got out of the bucket and got into the pail.
Don't throw away the old bucket until you know whether the new one holds water.
Bucket wid hole a battam have no business a riverside.
Don't throw away the old bucket until you know whether the new one holds water.
What can you do with a good cow that gives a lot of milk and then kicks the bucket over?
A drop does not kill, and you won't drown in a bucket.
Once you pour the water out of the bucket it's hard to get it back in it.
Sticks in a bundle are unbreakable.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
Days cannot be tied in a bundle.
God will provide, but a good bundle of straw will not be amiss.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
A single arrow is easily broken, but ten in a bundle aren't.
He who wakes up early in the morning receives a bundle of blessings.
He looks for a needle in a bundle of hay.
Sticks in a bundle are unbreakable.
A foolish bride gets no presents.
Woe to the high spirited bride whose mother-in-law is still alive.
The earth is God's bride -- she feeds the living and cherishes the dead.
We praised the bride, and she was found pregnant.
Blest is the bride the sun shines on.
Death is the bride of life.
Choose a matchmaker, not a bride.
At the wedding-feast the least eater is the bride.
Always a bridesmaid, never a bride.
The weeping bride makes a laughing wife.
He who has the fortune brings home the bride.
The grumbling mother-in-law forgets that she once was a bride.
There's no handsome woman on the wedding day, except the bride.
Happy is the bride that the sun shines on.
Don't marry a good-looking bride for you'll have to watch her.
Whatsoever a new bride touches is fragrant.
At a wedding a bride eats the least.
He that has the luck leads the bride to church.
All is well: for if the bride has not fair hair, she has a fair skin.
At her wedding, the bride eats the least.
If you don't lift the skirt of a bride you don't know what she wears under it.
A bride received into the home is like a horse that you have just bought; you break her in by constantly mounting her and continually beating her.
Happy is the bride the sun shines on.
The bride is too beautiful.
To the fiancT -- milk; to the bride -- butter; to the husband -- cheese.
To the fianct - milk; to the bride - butter; to the husband - cheese.
If the bride can't dance, she blames the musicians.
They made the garlic a bride, its smell did not come out for forty days.
How shall the enemy of the bride speak well of the wedding?
The pearls of a bride on her wedding day are the tears that will be shed later.
Were you at the wedding, Molly? No, mother, but the bride was very fine.
Sauna without birch switch is like a wedding without bride.
Three need to be guarded: a patient, a groom, and a bride.
A Fair Bride is soon buskt, and a short Horse is soon wispt.
Life is like honey and the bride like a mirror.
The man from Laihia takes his mother-in-law also to the honeymoon, so the bride would not wear out.
Can a burst dam be mended with toothpicks?
The frog wanted to be an ox and swelled up until he burst.
Grief pent up will burst the heart.
Better belly burst than good victuals spoil.
What is inflated too much, will burst into fragments.
The frog wanted to be as big as the elephant, and burst.
Grief pent up will burst the heart.
Better belly burst than good meat lost.
Bairns mother burst never.
One man's beard is burning, and another warms his hands by it.
He who starts his work early enough is neither hit by the severe sun heat nor the burning sand.
Burning the candle at both ends.
Work is burning down to his nail.
The lamp is not burning for those asleep.
A thief's hat is burning.
Burning the candle at both ends.
Only a fool fights in a burning house.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
We are no more than candles burning in the wind.
You can't hide the smoke when the house is burning.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
Burning the quilt because of the fleas.
Burning the poor man's candles, counting the rich man's money.
Work is burning under his hand.
The house is burning and Grandma is combing her hair.
Grease a churl's boots and he'll say you are burning them.
He that holds the handle of a frying-pan runs the risk of burning himself.
Unused firewood mocks the burning wood.
If you find your own house is on fire, you may be sure that your neighbour's house is burning much more fiercely.
Burning embers are easily kindled.
You are not a fully fledged sailor unless you have sailed under full sail, and you have not built a wall unless you have rounded a corner.
It's gradually that castles are built.
Rome and pavia weren't built in a day.
Many families are built on laughter.
If you see vessels afloat, remember that they have had to be built.
Character can be built on daily routine.
A house built by the wayside is either too high or too low.
If there be a hell, Rome is built over it.
It takes time to build castles. Rome wan not built in a day.
A house: you can know who built it, but not who is enjoying it.
Who never built a house thinks that the walls grow out of the ground.
Lawyers' houses are built on the heads of fools.
A house ready built and a vineyard ready planted.
A house can't be built for the rainy season that is past.
The village which is not discussed is not built.
Who built the drum knows best what is inside.
Professionals built the ‘Titanic,' amateurs built the ark.
Through wisdom is a house built, and by understanding it is established.
Castles were built a stone at a time.
Rome wasn't built in one day.
To have a hut built from mud here is better than a palace made from gold and marble on the Arabian Gulf.
A mansion pulled down is half built up again.
Who trusts in God has built well.
Any home not built for hot days or rains is not a home.
If the cairn were not built, the magpie wouldn't have perched.
The temple E-babbar, which Me-silim had built, was destroyed by Nanni, whose posterity had been cut off.
Wherever Burundi points the finger, a house is built.
No fence is built for the eyes.
Don't hide your light under a bushel.
It is easier to guard a bushel of fleas than a woman.
He knows how many grains to a bushel of wheat.
Before you make a friend, eat a bushel of salt with him.
To know a man well one must have eaten a bushel of salt with him.
A handful of motherwit is worth a bushel of learning.
Honourable words by the bushel!
Many words will not fill a bushel.
A handful of good life, is better than a bushel of learning.
Trust no one till you have eaten a bushel of salt with him.
Hide not your light under a bushel.
Many take by the bushel, and give with the spoon.
He does not hide his opinion under a bushel.
Truth cannot be hid under a bushel.
Measure the corn of others with your own bushel.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
Measure the corn of others with your own bushel.
Everyone thinks his own burden is heavy.
Even too much praise is a burden.
A heavy burden does not kill on the day it is carried.
He who has a boss is not the master of his burden.
There is no better friend than a burden.
The weight of the burden is known only by he who caries it.
Everyone lays a burden on the willing horse.
Put it on your shoulder and say it is not a burden.
A burden which one chooses is not felt.
Nothing is such a heavy burden as a secret is.
Collaboration, sharing of burden irrespective of the weight.
God makes the back to the burden.
The burden one likes is cheerfully carried.
Your companion's burden is a load of kapok.
None knows the weight of another's burden.
Dust does not burden him.
Three, helping one another, bear the burden of six.
God fits the back for the burden.
An old man in the house is a burden, but an old woman is a treasure.
An ass endures his burden, but not more than his burden.
'Tis a sorry ass that will not bear his own burden.
Every man shall bear his own burden.
Over-praise is a burden.
Tie the burden securely and go off singing.
Every one feels his own burden heavy.
It is not the burden but the over-burden that kills the beast.
On an empty belly every burden is heavy.
Don't put stones on a burden.
[One's] own burden doesn't encumber.
An old man in the house is a burden, but an old woman is a treasure.
I ask not for a lighter burden, but for broader shoulders.
The heaviest burden is an empty pocket.
If the mule doesn't go to the burden, then the burden will come to the mule.
He who carries one burden will soon carry a hundred.
Pass the bridge that your kinsmen have passed.
Don't cross a bridge until you come to it.
A child is a bridge to heaven.
As the wise man looks for a bridge the fool crosses the river.
Life is a bridge. Cross over it, but build no house on it.
Tap even a stone bridge before crossing.
Cross even a stone bridge after you've tested it.
We'll cross that bridge when we come to it.
A fable is a bridge that leads to truth.
You are permitted in times of great danger to walk with the devil until you have crossed the bridge.
Make a silver bridge for a flying enemy.
Where there is no bridge the smallest plank is of great value.
Make a pact with the devil until you have crossed the bridge.
He that would be a leader must be a bridge.
If you would get ahead, be a bridge.
When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down.
A friend at one's back is a safe bridge.
For a flying enemy make a silver bridge.
I am neither at the ford nor the bridge.
Don't cross the bridge till you come to it.
Abuse of hospitality breaks the bridge.
If you destroy a bridge, be sure you can swim.
Everyone speaks well of the bridge which carries him over.
Don't cross the bridge until you come to it.
He who crosses a bridge to paradise and blows it after him is going to hell.
Those who do not forgive break the bridge on which they have to pass.
We'll cross that bridge when we get to it.
Don't cross a bridge before you come to it.
If man be a river, then woman will be a bridge.
It is good to make a bridge of gold to a flying enemy.
It's a bad bridge that is narrower than the stream.
For the flying enemy a golden bridge.
Even though words have no wings, they can still fly a thousand miles. Even if you encounter a stone bridge, tap it first before crossing. Through old things, we learn new things.
Call the bear uncle till you are safe across the bridge.
For a flying enemy make a golden bridge.
one may become the devil's brother in order to cross the bridge.
When thine enemy retreateth, make him a golden bridge.
Never cross a bridge till you come to it.
At a bridge, a plank, a river, the servant foremost, the master behind.
Make a bridge of silver for the flying enemy.
When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down.
We'll cross that bridge when we get to it.
Ane ill word begets another, and it were at at the Bridge at London.
Simo was under the bridge when other boys were revised.
Build a golden bridge for the fleeing enemy.
Never cross a bridge till you come to it.
When the tide of misfortune moves over you, even jelly will break your teeth.
Break the leg of a bad habit.
However long the night, the dawn will always break.
You cannot break through a wall with your forehead.
The butterfly who settles on a branch is afraid that he will break it.
Neither break a law nor make one.
If God lived on earth, people would break his windows.
People who do not break things first will never learn to create anything.
Don't break down, rope; this is the last jerk.
Day will not break thanks to the cackling of the chicken.
A back does not break from bending.
The rope will break where it is thinnest.
Hit him with a bean, he will break.
Gifts break rocks and melt hearts.
If you have no teeth, do not break the clay cooking pot.
A hen does not break her own eggs.
Words alone wont break bones.
I would like to break off the flower, but the branch is too high.
A family tie is like a tree; it can bend but it cannot break.
If the goat would not jump around, she wouldn't break her leg.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me.
A bow too much bent will break.
Hard words break no bones.
Neutrals tread on eggs and break none.
Too much will soon break.
If you break the fast, better eat pork, not curds.
You will break the bow if you keep it always bent.
Gifts break rocks.
Don't pull hard enough to break the rope.
As day break, the glowworms say "We've lit up the world!”.
I gave him a staff for his support and he uses it to break my head.
A bow that is bent too far will break.
Hard words break no bones.
If it were not for hope, the heart would break.
Big flies break the spider's web.
He who looks only at heaven may easily break his nose on earth.
Words have no bones, but can break bones.
An Elder does not break wind in public, but in a latrine.
Fortune and glass break easily.
Great fishes break the net.
Don't overstrain your bow - it may break.
Fortune and glass break soon, alas.
Bury truth in a golden coffin, it will break it open.
In affect you can break even an elm.
Do not throw a stone at the mouse and break the precious vase.
Patience can break through iron doors.
You do not need a big stick to break a cock's head.
I'm not going to lend you a stick to break my head with.
The hyena of your own country does not break your bones.
When a very short man causes the market to break up in a big fight, bystanders ask him to stand up so that they can see how short he really is.
If you want to eat pipius claw, you'll have to break a few pipiuses.
Even if your bee-hive has no honey in it, you shouldn't break it up.
Be never the first with friend of thine to break the bond of fellowship.
Even if your bee-hive has no honey in it, you shouldn't break it up.
Kiss any arm you cannot break, a and pray to God to break it.
The responsibility of power is like holding an egg. Grasp it too tightly and it will drip through your fingers; hold it too loosely and it will drop and break.
A bride received into the home is like a horse that you have just bought; you break her in by constantly mounting her and continually beating her.
Too many cooks, cooking at the same time makes the day take long to break.
Those who do not forgive break the bridge on which they have to pass.
It's better to fall from a tree and a break your back than to fall in love and break your heart.
If you break a coconut on a man's head, he will not enjoy eating it.
It's better to break than to bend.
He who is to break his neck finds the stairs in the dark.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
You may break a horse's back, be he never so strong.
You have to break a few eggs to make an omelette.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
What bread men break is broken to them again.
Better bow than break.
When you play, you may break your head.
Want and necessity break faith and oaths.
Break one link and the whole chain falls apart.
He'd offer you an egg if you promised not to break the shell.
Better bend than break.
Threads do not break for being fine, but for being gouty and ill-spun.
Good riding at two anchors men have told, For it one break, the other yet may hold.
Better bend than break.
Break the legs of an evil custom.
He would break his neck against a straw.
If all cords break.
Who will eat the kernel of the nut must break the shell.
Fair words break no bones.
It is hard to break a hog of an ill custom.
He would fall on his back and break his nose.
Put a begger on horseback, and he will ride fast, or else break his neck.
Were it not for hope the heart would break.
Better to bend than to break.
You do not need a big stick to break a cock's head.
The butcher should not be trusted that has missing neighbors.
It is possible for a ram to kill a butcher.
Never buy bread from a butcher.
He that is not a master of something, is a butcher of it.
The butcher looked for his knife and it was in his mouth.
If skill could be gained by watching, every dog would become a butcher.
There is no butcher that does not slaughter.
One butcher fears not many sheep.
If skill could be gained by watching, every dog would become a butcher.
The hungry dream of bread, the thirsty of water.
Bake the bread while the oven is hot.
When do we have a day of fast? When there is no bread and ham in the larder.
A strawberry blossom will not sweeten dry bread.
The man who has bread to eat does not appreciate the severity of a famine.
God gives the wheat, He doesn't bake the bread.
When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other.
One's own simple bread is much better than someone else's pilaf.
No one will give a pauper bread, but everybody will give him advice.
If everybody said bread and cheese, you put your head down and die.
Where there is little bread, cut first.
Not only of bread will the man live.
every man look to the bread upon which he must depend.
Not only of bread lives a man.
Better to eat bread in peace, then cake amid turmoil.
Borrowed bread lies heavy on the stomach.
The rich worry over their money, the poor over their bread.
Whose bread you eat, his songs you'll sing.
He who has no bread has no authority.
Carry bread in your hood to Don Garcia's wedding.
Beggars can't be choosers. For a good appetite there is no hard bread.
Eat the bread of the man you hate and also of him you love.
A half loaf is better than no bread.
Manage with bread and salted butter until God brings something to eat with it.
By bread and salt we are united.
Half bread is better than nothing.
Avoid those who don't like bread and children.
He who shares my bread and salt is not my enemy.
If you find no fish, you have to eat bread.
One knows even when one neighbour's bread is in the oven.
If there is only bread and onions, still have a happy face.
Whosoever eats bread without first washing his hands, it is as though he had sinned with a harlot.
Our bread today is better than a hundred in the air.
One man's death is another man's bread.
Man cannot live by bread alone.
Bread is the staff of life, but beer's life itself.
Charity bread has hard crusts.
Better to have bread and an onion with peace than stuffed fowl with strife.
If fools were to eat no bread, corn would be cheap.
Many children and little bread is a painful pleasure.
Whose bread I eat, his song I sing.
Never buy bread from a butcher.
If it doesn't have water for me, instead it has bread for you.
Threatened folks eat bread.
Ill befal the belly that forgets eaten bread.
In default of bread, meal cakes are good.
Water by Saint John's takes oil and doesn't give bread.
There will be no bread from that flour.
Without work there won't be any bread in your mouth.
Even the dog gets bread by wagging his tail.
Stones or bread, one must have something in hand for the dogs.
Others' bread has seven crusts.
He who gives bread to others' dogs is often barked at by his own.
Don't bite till you know whether it is bread or a stone.
Others' bread is too salt.
Who goes for a day in the forest should take bread for a week.
The God who gave us teeth will also give us bread.
He who cannot cut the bread evenly cannot get on well with people.
Better dry bread in peacetime than meat in wartime.
Acorns were good till bread was found.
The man of many trades begs his bread on Sunday.
The death of one - the bread of the other.
Check before you bite if it is bread or a stone.
The starving man will never burn his bread.
A man without a beard is like bread without a crust.
To a starving man bread is sweeter than honey.
Black soil produces white bread.
In times of famine no bread is stale.
A candidate promises more cheese than bread.
Bread and bird: we don't discuss house business.
Respect bread because bread is older than we are.
Who eats bread with barley porridge will be sent to siberia.
No bread is too hard for warm coffee.
If you travel for a day, take bread for a week.
Once you've cut the bread, you cannot put it together again.
Choose bread with eyes, cheese without eyes and wine that makes your eyes pop.
While you still have bread, troubles are not troubles, true troubles are without bread.
By pounding the dough the bread will rise.
The death of one person means bread for another.
Long fasting is no bread sparing.
For a good appetite there is no hard bread.
A young wife, new bread, and green wood devastate a house.
Garlic by the savour, bread by the colour.
It is bread that keeps one warm, not fur.
Do not stuff your servant with bread, and he won't ask for cheese.
His bread fell into the honey.
All griefs with bread are less.
A day without bread lasts long.
A little pepper burns a big man's mouth.
An ember burns where it falls.
Kif is like fire; a little warms, a great deal burns.
When your luck deserts you, even cold food burns.
He who burns his mouth on the soup will blow on a cold fish dish.
The wet branch burns better than the dry stone.
Whatever is to be a nettle, burns early.
Crooked wood burns quite as well as straight.
The sweat of one's brow is what burns everyone.
Too much wax burns the church.
Who glows not burns not.
A little fire burns up a great deal of corn.
The fire that burns a royal palace only enhances its splendor.
When your neighbor burns down, your hurt is near.
That which burns thee not, cool not.
Money burns many.
Not so much that it burns the saint, nor so little that it doesn't illuminate him.
The grass torch that burns a bad house, also burns a good one.
Fat fries and burns itself.
When an old man dies, a library burns down.
A bird with fire on its tail burns its own nest.
He who burns down his house knows why ashes cost a fortune.
A small fire that warms you, is better than a large one that burns you.
True love burns within the heart, better than flax and straw.
A brand burns him who stirs it up.
He burns the candle at both ends.
He who burns his posteriors must sit on blisters.
When the kitchenmaids are together the roast burns.
A small fire that warms you is better than a large one that burns you.
Thanks to one small candle the whole of Moscow burns.
The one who burns his mouth for drinking milk too hot, eats even yogurt carefully.
The green burns for the dry, and the righteous pay for sinners.
He does not a little who burns his house: he frightens the rats, and warms himself.
The hat burns on the head of the thief.
It's the same to the sauna if the drying barn burns.
For a flea he burns the blanket.
He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes.
The day you are unlucky, even the cold food burns.
His money burns a hole in his pocket.
The fire heeds little whose cloak it burns.
Old wood lights better but burns out quicker.
A fool laughs when the village burns.
A thief's hat burns.
A brother is like one's shoulder.
The river is my brother for it carries my canoe.
Who throws stones at night, kills his own brother.
A friend is worth more than a brother.
Treat your superior as a father, your equal as a brother, and your inferior as a son.
A dog by your side is better than a brother miles away.
Silence is a brother of delight.
The lazy is a brother of the begger.
The camel never sees his own hump, but that of his brother is always in his eyes.
Look to your near neighbour rather than to your distant brother.
You can trust your brother, your father, your mother, but never your wife.
Exile is the brother of death.
A bad brother is far better than no brother.
The yellow dog is brother to the wolf.
Between brother and brother, accounts should be square.
The deserter is the brother of the murderer.
You need a brother, without one you're like a person rushing to battle without a weapon.
Penny is penny's brother.
I met a hundred men going to Delhi and everyone is my brother.
Money is money's brother.
A good friend is often better than a brother.
A slothful man is a beggar's brother.
In the game no one is brother to others.
I can get another husband but never another brother.
Anger against a brother is felt in the flesh, not in the bone.
A man has the same last name as his brother.
Impatience with your brother is in the flesh, it doesn't reach the bone.
At the narrow passage, there is no brother and no friend.
I against my brother, I and my brother against our cousin, I, my brother and our cousin against the neighbors, All of us against the foreigner.
Seek strength, not to be greater than my brother, but to fight my greatest enemy - myself.
One who always depends on his brother will die poor.
Sleep is the brother of Death.
The first day you see a friend; the next day, a brother.
If you see your brother being scalped, put water on your hair.
If your brother is rich it doesn't mean you're rich.
Anger against a brother is felt on the flesh, not in the bone.
A brother may not be a friend . . . .
The river is my brother for it carries my canoe.
At the narrow passage there is no brother and no friend.
When your son grows up, become his brother.
Your brother is who gives you a honest advice.
your brother is that who consoles you.
A good neighbour is better than a brother far off.
For a ducat brother will sell brother.
one may become the devil's brother in order to cross the bridge.
A friend by thee is better than a brother far off.
The simple man's the begger's brother.
Fire has no brother.
Better to own it than asking your brother for it.
Bare is the back of a brother less man.
A friend by you is better than a brother far off.
Idleness is hunger's mother, and of theft it is bull brother.
Girl, your brother cannot choose for you; whom do you choose?
Girl, your brother is like me. A brother should let you live as would I.
Rather water from the brother than beer from a stranger.
A loan is a brother when taken, a nephew when paid back.
When your son is young, discipline him; when he grows older, be a brother to him.
A friend is better than a brother of the same mother.
The brother or sister who does not respect the traditions of the elders will not be allowed to eat with the elders.
A brother may not be a friend.
A younger brother should honour an older brother. He should treat him with human dignity.
A husband wants to have a healthy wife; a brother wants to have a rich sister.
Bury me on my feet, I have spent my entire life on my knees.
The dog's tail stays crooked even if he is buried for twelve years.
Don't praise my good fortune before i'm dead and buried.
He who really wants to die will not complain if he is buried standing up.
Even if the truth is buried for centuries, it will eventually come out and thrive.
You have to dig deep to bury your daddy.
Any ground is good enough to be buried in.
If you dig a hole to bury a person but instead of burying that person you may be the one to be buried in this place.
Evil in people does not go away when they get buried.
Who kills has to bury.
Who dies threatening will be buried with farting.
At death, one's words and defects are buried.
Bury truth in a golden coffin, it will break it open.
When you die, your trumpeter will be buried.
Bleed him, purge him, and if he dies, bury him.
Call me not fortunate till you see me buried.
A buxom widow must be married, buried, or cloistered.
Whichever son is able should bury his father. The first son did not kill him.
Do not be like a miser who saves for those who will bury him.
He that has no money might as well be buried in a rice tub with his mouth sewn up.
The most important thing in life is to be buried well.
A man isn't dead until is buried.
Even if you're rich, you cannot bury yourself.
The buried do not give birth.
If you kill time, you'll bury opportunities.
Bury can't and you'll find will.
Bury your own dead.
To withhold truth is to bury gold.
The Irish forgive their great men when they are safely buried.
Bleed him, purge him, and if he dies, bury him.
They have buried the hatchet.
Thorns bury shallowly into one who walks slowly. Thorns bury deeply into one who walks fast.
All a doctor's mistakes lie buried.
By the living we bury the dead.
She is good and honoured who is dead and buried.
We are born from the womb of our mother; we are buried in the womb of the earth.
Bury the hatchet...Elássa a csatabárdot.
In Thy skies, mountains,
Springs, seas that were conquered
Buried already is the darkness
Of yesterday's suffering.
Thorns bury shallowly into one who walks slowly.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes; the seller but one.
The seller has one eye, the buyer, one hundred.
He who wants to sell his honor will always find a buyer.
For the buyer a hundred eyes are too few, for the seller one is enough.
The buyer has need of a hundred eyes, the seller of but one.
Buyer beware.
The buyer first disparages.
The buyer of the rotten beans is the blind man.
The buyer has need of a hundred eyes. the seller but one.
A good cowman knows how to lie to the tax collector and the cattle buyer.
May both seller and buyer see the benefit.
The buyer buys for as little as possible the seller sells for as much as possible.
A building of sand falls as you build it.
Singing birds don't build nests.
You can't build a barrel round a bung hole.
Life is a bridge. Cross over it, but build no house on it.
What you build easily will fall quickly.
Some men build a wine cellar after only finding one grape.
Lies that build are better than truths that destroy.
A talkative bird will not build a nest.
It is better to build bridges than walls.
To have saved one human life is worth more than to build a paGoda with seven stories.
Don't wait for an anthill to build up in your mushroom better attack its origin sooner than later.
Several repeated visits to the mud pit enable the wasp to build its house.
Where god builds a church, the devil will build a chapel.
If you build according to every man's advice, you will have a crooked house.
Build golden bridges for the flying foe.
It is easier to build two hearths than always to keep fire on one.
Many who build castles in the air cannot build a hut on earth.
It takes time to build castles. Rome wan not built in a day.
Catch the bird before you build a cage.
To preserve friendship, one must build walls.
If you want to build high, you must dig deep.
He who wants to build high must dig deep.
A pot that build attracts the cook.
A single man can not build a house.
With money you can build a road in the sea.
Fools build house and wise men live in them.
You cannot build a wall with one stone.
You cannot build a house for last year's summer.
Don't build the bungalow on an inch of ground.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
Build with silver and cover with gold.
If you do not fill up a crack, you will have to build a wall.
Don't build a new ship out of old wood.
Only when all contribute their firewood can they build up a strong fire.
A fish and bird may fall in love but the two cannot build a home together.
A gentle politician doesn't promise to build bridges where there is no water.
You cannot build a house for last year's summer.
You can build a house but you must make a home.
First build your house and then accommodate the furniture.
Men build houses; women build homes.
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.
Money can build roads in the sea.
God gave us hands but He doesn't build bridges with them.
Fools build houses, wise men buy them.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
We should build with the stones we have.
Don't build bigger houses than you may set roofs on.
It's difficult to build a boat plank against the wave.
Pee on the ruins before they build a temple over them.
Men don't build on strange ground.
We use to live and spill tears, now we live and build happiness.
When our enemy flies, build him a golden bridge.
Build but one nest in one tree.
One, one dutty build dam .
If opportunity doesn't knock build a door.
Doubts --- helped a man to live, to grow, or to build.
Fools build houses and wise men live in them.
Do not build the sty before the litter comes.
Men don't build on strange ground.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
Build a golden bridge for the fleeing enemy.
Buying and selling is but winning and losing.
Money's for buying and a horse is for riding.
Always know what your buying.
IF you are buying a cow, make sure that the price of the tail is included.
You cannot win a lottery without buying a ticket.
Be aware of a man with a sweet tongue he can lead you to buying bad meat.
It costs you your good spirit to steal than buying or seeking.
Don't question a blind man for buying a mirror, it must serve him some purpose.
Many have been ruined by buying good pennyworths.
Buying is cheaper than asking.
Long choosing and cheapening ends in buying nothing, or bad wares.
Peace is worth buying.
If you make a habit of buying things you do not need, you will soon be selling things you do.
With selling and buying there are neither friends nor cronies.
Three things make a man rich: Earning and not spending, promising and not doing, buying and not selling.
The buying of a wife begins from a little thing.
Buying a cat in a bag.
You don't learn anything from buying, but you do from selling.
The art of doing business lies more in paying than in buying.
Peace is worth buying.
Running and buying don't go together -- running and selling do.
If you make a habit of buying things you do not need.
At evening the sluggard is busy.
Grass doesn't grow on a busy street.
Who more busy than they who have least to do?
Tomorrow is the day that idlers get busy.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools.
He who knows not how to employ his leisure hath more cares on his mind than the most busy of busily-engaged men.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too bus to take care of his tools.
If you are poor, though you dwell in the busy marketplace, no one will inquire about you; if you are rich, though you dwell in the heart of the mountains, you will have distant relatives.
The busy man has few idle visitors: to the boiling pot the flies come not.
Some are very busy and yet do nothing.
Love is full of busy fear.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools.
Towards evening the lazy person begins to get busy.
Everybody's busy is nobody's business.
He that is busy is tempted but by one devil, he that is idle by a legion.
A busy mother makes slothful daughters.
He that is busy is tempted but by one devil, he that is idle by a legion.
A busy women has a lazy daughter, a lazy women has a busy daughter.
Ken when to spend and when to spare, and ye needna be busy, and ye'll ne'er be bare.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a farmer too lazy to plant his field.
You get a lot of these blows, said the busy bee when he flew against a brick wall.
None so busy as those who do nothing.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove.
As busy as a bee.
Tomorrow is the busiest day of the year.
Tomorrow is often the busiest time of the year.
The busy fly is in every man's dish.
Grass doesn't grow on a busy street.
Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.
Busy like a bull in the spring.
A mad bull is not to be tied up with a pack thread.
Feign death and the bull will leave you.
The bull that is used to the sun shivers by the light of the moon.
It is better to be a bull for a year than a cow for a hundred years.
No matter how hard you try, a bull will never give milk.
Just because he harmed your goat, do not go out and kill his bull.
Because a man has injured your goat, do not go out and kill his bull.
Take the bull by the horns and the man at his word.
Don't help a bull out of a ditch, for when he's out he'll butt you.
A strong bull is seen by it's scars.
A bull is not known in two herds.
The bull should be taken by the horns, a man at his word.
You take a bull by the horns and a man by his words.
When a bull gets his leg broken, he is sure to go back to his yard.
He that does not fear a bull must be a bull himself.
Milk belongs to the cow, but the bull cow gets the publicity.
Bear and bull catch no fox.
Pretend to be dead and the bull will leave you alone.
It is easy to frighten the bull from the window.
Lilly billy-goat hab beard by big bull hab none.
When bull ole him feed a fence side.
At the beginning of january, take the bull to fields of heather.
Take the bull by the horns.
Don't stop the way of a bull or of a current of air.
Flying from the bull he fell into the river.
If it is to be luck, the bull may as well calve as the cow.
The whole arena tells them to kill the bull, yet the bull should kill no one.
No price is too low for a bear or too high for a bull.
Where there is a herd without a bull, a castrated ox will rule.
There is always one bull of the kraal.
When a stiff-necked bull stands with its four legs planted firmly and refuses to move, you cannot make it go ahead only by pulling it by the reins and using your whip.
It is easy to threaten a bull from a window.
He bellows like a bull, but is as weak as a bulrush.
If the bull would throw you, lie down.
Take a man by his word, take a bull by its horn.
Idleness is hunger's mother, and of theft it is bull brother.
Make way for a madman and a bull.
Busy like a bull in the spring.
Me too, said the little bull.
The old bull has a stronger horn.
Like a red rag to a bull.
Take the bull by the horns.
The bull must be taken by the horns.
You cannot milk a bull.
One shouldn't make a bull out of a fly.
If you want to dismantle a hedge, remove one thorn bush at a time.
A spooked crow is afraid of a bush.
Underneath every bush you'll find a mud rabbit ready to bolt.
Poke a bush, a snake comes out.
The canary that dances along the bush path must have its drummer in the nearby bush.
Good wine needs no bush.
He who hunts two hares from one bush, is not likely to catch either.
Instead of complaining that the rosebush is full of thorns, be happy that the thorn bush has roses.
He that peeps into every bush will hardly get into the wood.
Good wind needs no bush.
A bush does note grow berries in winter.
Not all the buds on a bush will blossom.
He makes the hare spring out of the bush.
A bird in the hand is worth ten in the bush.
Don't cry holloa! till you're out of the bush.
Good wine needs no bush.
A bad bush is better than an open field.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
The bush fowl saw the chicken being carved up and laughed. The chicken told the bush fowl to stop laughing. For the same hands now carving up the chicken would be used to carve up the bush fowl.
You can take a monkey out of the bush, but you cant take the bush of a monkey.
Every bush is a man.
He who ventures into the bush should close his ears to rattling.
The fox must be chased away first after that the hen might be warned against wandering into the bush.
A bush that doesn't rotate baskets must not grow mushrooms.
No matter how well tamed a lion, it will one day go back to the bush.
There's more than one way to beat the devil around the bush.
He will never get into the wood who starts at every bush.
One beats the bush, another catches the bird?
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Good wine needs no bush.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Good wine needs no bush.
Bush natural; more hair than wit.
A bird in the hand is worth more than ten in the bush.
He who fears every bush, comes late to the wood.
Ane beats the bush, and anither grips the bird.
A herbalist that refuses to ask laymen what leaves he looks for in the bush, must have difficulties getting what he wants.
A bush fowls' playground is never appreciably spacious.
Many a man has been guarding the bush and another plucking the fruit.
There is no bush so small but casts its shadow.
The friendship of a great man is like the shadow of a bush -- soon gone.
It is better to walk around a bush than fight with a dog.
One man beats the bush, another catcheth the bird.
Through thick and thin, both over bank and bush.
You dont throw stones at an approching craclin noise in the bush wait and see what is it first.
A bird in the hand is worth twa in the bush.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
A bird in hand is worth two in a bush.
Even the smallest little bush casts some shadow.
You can kill a dog more way than by choking it with butter.
Boil stones in butter, and you may sip the broth.
One can't spoil porridge with butter.
Manage with bread and salted butter until God brings something to eat with it.
You cannot fly with wings made of butter.
Don't butter the skillet before catching the fish.
If the nail decided to malinger, it would not pierce butter.
No matter how much milk a cow has, you cannot milk butter from it.
Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night.
How easily a hair gets into the butter!
What butter or whiskey will not cure is incurable.
Soft words butter no turnips.
Soft words butter no parsnips, but they won't harden the heart of the cabbage either.
Long churning makes bad butter.
Don't be a baker if your head is made of butter.
Where there is butter there are flies.
He fell with his nose in the butter.
He keeps his word, as the sun keeps butter.
There are more ways to kill a dog than by choking him on peanut butter.
Never quarrel with one's bread and butter.
Fair words butter no cabbage.
Never fall out with your bread and butter.
He must have plenty of butter, who would stop everybody's mouth.
Butter spoils no meat, and moderation injures no cause.
It is dear-bought butter that is licked off a woolcomb.
It is not easy to know your butter in another man's cabbage.
There are more ways of killing a dog than choking it with butter.
There are many ways of killing a pig other than by choking it with butter.
What butter and whiskey won't cure, there is no cure for.
Fish, to taste right, must swim 3 times -- in water, in butter and in wine.
Fish, to taste good, must swim three times: in water, in butter, and in wine.
All is not butter that comes from the cow.
He who has butter on his head, should not go to the sun.
They that have got good store of butter may lay it thick on their bread.
Be not a baker if your head be of butter.
It mars to tie the dog to the butter stamp.
There are many ways of killing a dog without choking him with butter.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
To the fiancT -- milk; to the bride -- butter; to the husband -- cheese.
To the fianct - milk; to the bride - butter; to the husband - cheese.
Butter with the fish.
He that hath a head of butter must not come near the oven.
If your head is made of butter, don't be a baker.
Cheese from the ewe, milk from the goat, butter from the cow.
Be not a baker if your head is butter.
Words butter not parsnips.
A Russian is a Russian even if fried with butter.
Butter on the tongue, poison in the heart.
What butter and whiskey will not cure there's no cure for.
After beating milk, butter is obtained.
Never quarrel with one's bread and butter.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Butter is crazy three times a year, when it's too hard, too soft and then when there's no butter at all.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Burn your enemies caravan and you burn you future.
They that burn you for a witch lose all their coals.
You can burn down a house, but can you hide the smoke?
If you watch your pot, your food will not burn.
He who has no spoon will burn his hands.
A distant fire does not burn.
Never burn a penny candle looking for a halfpenny.
Never burn your fingers to snuff another man's candle.
One spark is enough to burn a hundred worlds.
One person can burn water, while another can't even burn oil.
When a king is about to lose his power his orders burn more intensely than fire.
Old love and wood will burn as soon as they get the chance.
Where two women rule a hearth-fire, the thatch may burn with the sparks flying.
How can you be burnt by chilies which you have not eaten?.
Those who sacrifice their conscience to ambition burn a painting to obtain ashes.
Just because you are irritated by a mosquito, you burn the mosquito curtain.
The wood is burnt, but the ashes are a nuisance.
Heed the troubadour, burn the dinner.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
Burn not your house to fright the mouse away.
Fire will burn itself out if it did not find anything to burn.
His eyes are like two burnt holes in a blanket.
Too many candles will burn down the church.
Eat fire and your mouth burn; live on credit and your pride will burn.
It is too late to come with water when the house is burnt down.
Don't extinguish something that does not burn you.
In a fire, both green and dry wood burn.
The starving man will never burn his bread.
Burn a good maltese; let alone a bad one.
You don't have to put out the fire when all is burnt out.
Who has burnt himself with soup will blow on water as well.
Coal that does not burn gives little heat.
If your buttocks burn, you know you have done wrong.
The fly flutters about the candle till at last it gets burnt.
The fly flutters around the candle till it gets burnt.
Do not play with fire - you will burn yourself.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
Even over cold pudding, the coward says: "it will burn my mouth.”.
If envy would burn, there would be no need for wood.
A single log of wood does not burn even in an oven.
If you burn a house, can you conceal the smoke?
Adjoining houses always burn.
If left on one side it will burn.
What sweetens goat mout does burn e bottom.
Adjoining houses always burn.
Yesterday is ashes; tomorrow wood. Only today does the fire burn brightly.
If my shirt knew my design, I'd burn it.
Watch the fire burn on the other side of the river.
Better do a kindness near home than go far to burn incense.
As long as time is not pressing one does not burn incense; when it becomes urgent one kisses the feet of Buddha.
Better be kind at home than burn incense in a far place.
A bad habit is like fire you can't play with it and expect not to get burnt.
Fire that is surrounded by elders cannot burn you.
Don't give a dog a bad name in order to have an excuse to burn it.
It is sometimes best to burn your bridges behind you.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Better a little fire to warm us than a big one to burn us.
Don't burn the candle at both ends.
Burn not your house to scare away the mice.
If there were no tears, our ribs would burn.
It is as bad to spit out the fire and be shamed, as it is to swallow it and be burnt.
He who has many irons in the fire, will let some of them burn.
Let him who would reach another a brand, beware that he do not burn his own hand.
It is too late to throw water on the cinders when the house is burnt down.
One log does not burn long by itself.
You will find enough of brushna in every wood to burn it.
No tree but has rotten wood enough to burn it.
The burnt child shuns the fire.
We should not burn the light in both ends.
Ye may drink of the burn, but not bite of the brae.
The truth passes through fire and does not burn.
Mud houses don't burn.
Don't be too bold, or you will burn your eyes; but don't be too slow, or you will lose your share.
Burnt child fears the fire.
You don't burn incense at an old crucifix.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
It is better to blow than burn your mouth.
From a spark the house is burnt.
Some who mean only to warm, burn themselves.
If the fire does not burn you the smoke will blacken you.
A fire will sear and the sun burn yet more, but neither can match the ardor of a man's heart.
One sprinkles the most sugar where the tart is burnt.
Near the dry, the damp will burn.
We will burn a blanket to kill a flea.
March makes one look through the door, and makes one burn hoes and shovels.
An englishman will burn his bed to catch a flea.
It does no harm now and then to burn a candle for the devil.
Dine with a friend but do not do business with him.
Eat and drink with your relatives; do business with strangers.
Let every man mind his own business, and leave others to theirs.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
When you're out of luck in the coffin making business, no one dies.
If you are going to die you will die in the dark even if you have been in the candle business.
Business and folding screens must be crooked to stand.
Business is a two-way street.
In business partnerships and marriage partnerships, oh, the cheating that goes on.
When pleasure interferes with business, give up business.
Business first, pleasure after.
When every one minds his own business the work is done.
Business before pleasure.
Friends are friends, business are business.
Eat and drink with your relatives, but do business with strangers.
A fools knows his own business better than a wise man knows that of others.
He who doth his own business defileth not his fingers.
Make no headache of what is not your business.
Cockroach nuh business inna fowl fight.
Cows have no business in horseplay.
Bread and bird: we don't discuss house business.
There are no old friendships in business.
Advertising is the driving force of business.
Trust in God, but mind your own business.
Do not leave to morning the business of evening.
To believe a business impossible is the way to make it so.
A partner in the business will not put an obstacle to it.
War is good for business.
There's nothing more dangerous than an honest business man.
Peace is good for business.
Know your enemies... But do business with them always.
A fierce dog ruins a liquor store business.
To open a business is very easy; to keep it open is very difficult.
He who loves peace minds his own business.
No iron is so strong that it cannot be melted down, and no business so dirty that can be fixed with money.
What isn't your duty isn't your business.
Business is business, and love is love.
Business neglected is business lost.
Drive your business or it will drive you.
Business goes where it is invited and stays where it is well treated.
The man who minds his own business generally has a good one.
Do no business with a kinsman.
Time is the soul of business.
They who have much business must have much pardon.
The citizen is at his business before the sun rises.
Drive your business, do not let it drive you.
Business before pleasure.
Work is our business; it's success is God's.
Everybody's busy is nobody's business.
Schnapps is schnapps and business is business.
Mind your own business.
The early riser gets through his business but not through early rising.
In business you need two Jews for one Greek, two Greeks for one Syrian and two Syrians for one Armenian.
Tell everybody your business and the devil will do it for you.
A dog may die from too much walking, but a fool dies from worrying about someone else's business.
A business is good, when both parties make a good bargain.
You will never know a man till you do business with him.
Bucket wid hole a battam have no business a riverside.
The man who minds his own business well has always enough to do.
If you have a business you have to smile at everyone.
New advice for a new business.
Without business, debauchery.
What's everybody's business is nobody's business.
Let every man mind his own business.
The art of doing business lies more in paying than in buying.
He that minds his business at home, will not be accused of taking part in the fray.
It is no business of mine; may it go to the devil!
Men see more of the business of others than of their own.
Prying with sidelong glance into other people's business.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
Mind your own business.
The goat's business is not the sheep's business.
Friends are friends, business are business.
Great business is good; to sit and sip this glass is better.
The devil always tends to his own business.
Prudent pauses forward business.
Business is business.
If you engage in a business you don't understand, your money will fly away.
Punctuality is the sole of business.
Let every one mind his own business, and the cows will be well tended.
Drive your business, don't let it drive you.
Don't draw another's bow, don't ride another's horse, don't mind another's business.
You cannot buy wisdom abroad if there is none at home.
Don't buy a boat that is under water.
Don't buy the salt if you haven't licked it yet.
If you don't sell your head, no one will buy it.
Truth came to market but could not be sold; however, we buy lies with ready cash.
When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
Never buy through your ears but through your eyes.
Add up your pennies, and buy a hen.
Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house.
Don't sell the sun to buy a candle.
When you buy beef, you buy bones; when you buy land, you buy rocks.
If you buy things you don't need, you will soon be selling things you do need.
Sweet tongues buy horses on credit.
Don't buy the house, buy the neighborhood.
Tell me what you want to buy and I will tell you what you are.
Nobody wants to buy a sleeping horse.
Buy on the rumor; sell on the news.
If you buy things you don't need, you are stealing from yourself.
You can always buy her back later.
If thine enemy wrong thee, buy each of his children a drum.
Before you buy shoes, measure your feet.
Talk is cheap but it takes money to buy whiskey.
He that knows thee will never buy thee.
An inch of gold will not buy an inch of time.
Ask thy purse what thou should'st buy.
One white foot, buy him; two white feet, try him; three white feet, look well about him; four white feet, go without him.
Never buy bread from a butcher.
if one disdains, one wants to buy.
To loan is to buy troubles.
To lend is to buy a quarrel.
Buy what you have no need of and ere long you shall sell your necessaries.
Buy the bed of a great debtor.
It is good to buy when another wants to sell.
Gold does not buy everything.
If you want to buy love, love itself is the price you'll have to pay.
Do not buy with your ears, but with your eyes.
He who has not been given brains from above will not buy them at the apothecary.
A friend you have to buy; enemies you get for nothing.
He could not earn enough to buy even cold water.
Beetles that roll balls out of human faeces demand to be hidden away from the rich man, because there is nothing he wouldn't buy.
If a child is not well-behaved, she is not sent by the mother to go alone to the market to buy things for her.
You can't buy heaven with money.
You don't buy a cat in a bag.
The poor can't afford to buy cheap.
Don't buy a cat in a sack.
Don't buy a pig in a poke.
Gentility, sent to market, will not buy a peck of meal.
He who wants a new world must first buy the old.
Buy from desperate people, and sell to newlyweds.
Buy from people who are desperate, and sell to newlyweds.
When the last tree has been cut down, the last river has been polluted and the last fish has been caught -- only then do you realize that money can't buy everything.
Buy or die.
You can buy everything, except a father and a mother.
If you buy things you don't need, you'll soon be selling things you do.
De tongue dat buy yuh does sell yuh.
When you buy, use your eyes and your mind, not your ears.
Don't try to buy fish in the dry towns.
If you have only two pennies left in the world, with the first penny, you should buy rice to feed your family. With the second penny, say the wise Japanese, you should buy a lily. The Japanese understand the importance of dreaming...
A wild goose may be worth a hundred pieces of gold, but you first have to spend three pieces of gold to buy an arrow.
If you have two loaves of bread, sell one and buy a lily.
Anyone can buy a good house, but good neighbors are priceless.
An inch of time is an inch of gold but you can't buy that inch of time with an inch of gold.
He who has brothers has more than riches can buy.
When you buy friends with anything other than friendship, they do not stay bought long.
Don't buy a cow to get a glass of milk.
Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?
He that speaks ill of the mare would buy her.
Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest.
He that blames would buy.
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.
If you buy cheap meat, you'll smell what you have saved when it boils.
Do not buy either the moon or the news, for in the end they will both come out.
If you buy cheap meat, when it boils you smell what you have saved.
Don't send an old man to buy a donkey, nor a young man to woo a wife.
He who will not take cheap advice, will have to buy dear repentance.
He who would buy sausage of a dog must give him bacon in exchange.
Fools build houses, wise men buy them.
He that finds fault wants to buy.
A Tyrone woman will never buy a rabbit without a head for fear it's a cat.
Woe to being a housewife/househusband, you buy one thing, you don't have two others.
Buy your greyhound, don't rear him.
One may buy gold too dear.
He who buys the broom can also buy the handle.
He has sold the sun to buy a candle.
Never buy a pig in a poke.
Many buy the bearskin before the bear is shot.
If you buy what you don't need, you steal from yourself.
Soft words butter no parsnips, but they won't harden the heart of the cabbage either.
A good wife and a wholesome cabbage soup, what more could you want?
Fair words butter no cabbage.
He who would have good cabbage, must pay its price.
He who can't get bacon, must be content with cabbage.
It is not easy to know your butter in another man's cabbage.
It's no use boiling your cabbage twice.
Some prefer carrot while others like cabbage.
He confides the cabbage to the goat.
Cabbage twice cooked is death.
He is like the gardener's dog, who don't eat cabbage and will let no one else eat them.
Cabbage for cabbage.
Having a good wife and rich cabbage soup, seek not other things.
When there are many women, the cabbage will be spoled. The slimming of an elephant and the losses of a rich man are not noticeable.
Some like carrots others like cabbage.
Some prefer carrot while others like cabbage.
He who has plenty of pepper will pepper his cabbage.
To get eggs there must be some cackling.
Day will not break thanks to the cackling of the chicken.
A cackling hen doesn't always lay.
He that will have eggs, must bear with cackling.
A whistling girl and a cackling hen come to no good end.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
He who will have eggs, must bear with the cackling.
Wherever there are women there's talking, and wherever there's geese there's cackling.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
The mouth is the cause of calamity.
He appreciates prosperity who is caught in calamity.
A calamity is often a blessing in disguise.
He who earns calamity, eats it with his family.
What first appears as a calamity may later bring good fortune.
Better a calamity to be far away.
He who sees the calamity of other people finds his own calamity light.
To ask is no sin, and to be refused is no calamity.
One calamity is better than a thousand counsels.
What canna be cured maun be endured.
Wha canna gie will little get.
Ye canna mak a silk purse out o' a sow's lug.
What canna be cured maun be endured.
Kindness comes o will, it canna be coft.
A man canna wive and thrive in the same year.
He that wants content canna sit easy in his chair.
He that canna make sport shou'd mar nane.
It's ower weel hoardit that canna be fund.
Ye canna see the wood for trees.
Friendship canna stand aye on ae side.
Give an extra piece of cake to a stepchild.
Better to eat bread in peace, then cake amid turmoil.
He that will have a cake out of the wheat must tarry the grinding.
Turn the cake in the pan.
There's seldom a cake but there's more of the make.
Have your cake and eat it too.
A friendly word is better than a heavy cake.
If you eat someone's cake, you must also eat his lentils.
The most dangerous food to eat is a wedding cake.
A bean-jam rice cake into the open mouth.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
Look for cake, and lose your bread.
A cake eaten in peace, is worth two in trouble.
To one who has a pie in the oven you may give a bit of your cake.
A cake and a bad custom ought to be broken.
One can get sick of cake, but never of bread.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
A man cannot eat his cake and haue it stil: / That may he, vnlesse his retention be ill.
You cannot have your cake and eat it.
He plays with open cards.
Cards play and gamblers brag.
The devil's in the cards, said Sam, four aces and not a single trump.
Four things put a man beside himself--women, tobacco, cards, and wine.
Life is like a game in which God shuffles the cards, the devil deals them and we have to play the trumps.
With someone holding nothing but trumps it is impossible to play cards.
A pack of cards is the devil's prayer-book.
Many can pack the cards that cannot play.
Many people can pack the cards; fewer can play the game.
Burn your enemies caravan and you burn you future.
This caravan is lame until doomsday.
Our caravan is our family, and the world is our family.
Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
In the desert of life the wise travel by caravan, while the fool prefers to travel alone.
Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
Dogs bark but the caravan moves on.
Dogs bark, but the caravan keeps on.
In the desert of life the wise travel by caravan, while the fool.
The dogs bark but the caravan passes on.
The dogs bark, but the caravan passes on.
The bird that escapes from its cage never wants to come back.
Though a cage may be made of gold, it is still a cage.
Though the cage be made of gold, it's still a prison.
Even if the nightingale is in a gold cage, she still dreams of returning to the forest.
The narrower the cage, the sweeter the liberty.
Catch the bird before you build a cage.
A cage made of gold does not feed the bird inside of it.
A golden cage does not feed the bird.
Better be a bird of the wood than a bird in the cage.
An artful bird can be trapped in a rotten cage.
No matter how long a bird lives in a cage, it will always want to escape.
A severely under paid hungry teacher in a renovated, well-equipped classroom, can perform just as well as a bird without feathers can do in a hanging, decorated cage.
A bird in the cage is worth a hundred at large.
Where there's a senior the minor yields, said the chick in the cage.
You can cage a bird but you can't make it sing.
They put the nightingale into a golden cage, yet it still craved for its home.
The prettiest birds are in a cage.
From the woods a beautiful pheasant, from the sea a beautiful moray eel, from the river a den eel, from the cage a beautiful chicken.
In the estimation of the nightingale, a cage of gold is a prison.
Do not kick away the canoe which helped you to cross the river.
A canoe does not know who is king. When it turns over, everyone gets wet.
A paddle here, a paddle there - the canoe stays still.
Love many, trust few and always paddle your own canoe.
Two men quarreling do not share the same seat on a canoe.
No canoe is defiant on a stormy day.
When one dreams of a canoe, there will be no luck the next day.
Watch out lest the canoe land on a rocky reef.
The canoe ride is pleasant when the paddler is skilled.
A canoe peddler doesn't tell the crocodile he has along snout until he's crossed the river.
The river is my brother for it carries my canoe.
Paddle your own canoe.
Join those who can join sections of a canoe.
Maybe my canoe is bigger than yours, but the sea is the same. If there are no fish, we both go hungry.
You don't go to heaven in a carriage.
Gossip needs no carriage.
The community of living is the carriage of the lord.
A turtle never abandons its carriage.
A turtle never abandons its carriage.
Better in an old carriage than in a new ship.
It is not for the good of the cow when she is driven in a carriage.
Who carries doubtful people to his house, will doubtless from his carriage something lose.
Many will show the way after the carriage has overturned.
A rich man will get his carriage over the mountains, a poor man will lose his way on a level plain.
If the carriage be not greased, it does not move on.
Not wearing a high cap of someone.
The dreaming man makes excuses for his inaction and places a fools cap on his head.
A sandal is not a shoe; a cap is not a turban.
If the cap fits, wear it.
Cap in hand never did any harm.
Faith in a lord, a cap for the fool.
Cap no fit you, you no tek i' up.
The hat does not make the gentleman nor the cap a lout.
To every fool his cap.
Make the cap fit the head.
Whoever the cap fits, takes it.
Throwing your cap at a bird is not the way to catch it.
The shadow of a lord is a cap for a fool.
When falkland hill puts on his cap, the howe o' fife will get a drap, and when the bishop draws his cowl, look out for wind and weather fowl.
Don't make an oven of your cap or a garden of your belly.
Better bread in the basket than a feather in your cap.
Throwing your cap at a bird is not the way to catch it.
If the cap fits, wear it.
If the cap fits wear it.
Who lies with dogs rises with fleas.
Whoever the cap fits takes it. • Let him whom the cap suits wear it.
Noh put yu cap wh? yu caang reach it.
If the cap fits wear it.
Wild ducks and tomorrow both come without calling.
Calling the devil is not the same as seeing him come.
Calling out for mother, only when you stumble.
Friends are lost by calling too often and by not calling often enough.
Pot calling the kettle black.
To call war the soil of courage and virtue is like calling debauchery the soil of love.
Every one to his own calling, and the ox to the plough.
Every man must walk in his own calling.
Friends are lost by calling often and calling seldom.
You shout in vain when you're calling the deaf.
Cowboys don't walk round calling themselves cowboys.
Cowboys don't go around breaking hearts.
God promises a safe landing but not a calm passage.
Calm water does not mean there are no crocodiles.
Calm seas make sorry sailors.
Don't think there are no sharks because the water is calm.
Don't think there are no crocodiles just because the water's calm.
God promises a safe landing, but not a calm passage.
There's always a calm before a storm.
After a storm comes a calm.
In a calm sea, every man is a pilot.
Even the sea. great as it is, grows calm.
A person who is outwardly calm has anger raging inside.
The prudent embark when the sea is calm - the rash when it's stormy.
After the storm comes a calm.
A calm spirit will enable a man to survive even a six-month jail sentence.
It is the calm and silent water that drowns a man.
Calm weather in June, sets the corn in tune.
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.
A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair.
In fair weather, in calm waters and in peaceful travel, even a coachman knows how to sail.
In calm water every ship has a good captain.
Any man can steer in a calm.
Love itself is calm; turbulence arrives from individuals.
Calm water washes away.
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.
Remember to keep a calm mind in difficulties.
The fuller the cask, the duller its sound.
A cask of wine works more miracles than a church full of saints.
The full cask makes no noise.
The cask can give no other wine that that it contains.
A sip at a time empties the cask.
Every cask smells of the wine it contains.
A lord without land, is like a cask without wine.
When the wine runs to waste in the cellar, he mends the cask.
Every cask smells of the wine it contains.
The cask full, the mother-in-law drunk.
A drop of luck is worth a cask of wisdom.
The old cask tastes of what the new cask held.
It is easy to set a cask a rolling.
It is easy to set a cask a rolling. [To influence a fool.].
In the courtroom of the conscience, a case is always in progress.
A case is not to be decided from one mouth.
Well goes the case when wisdom counsels.
No one is a good judge of his own case.
Doubts mean losing half of one's case beforehand.
It is usual of a person found guilty in a trial to boast that he would press his case further.
Collect promptly, pay slowly; who knows, in case of an accident, you'll pay nothing.
A case is not to be decided from one mouth.
Nicknames are used in case the Devil comes asking for you.
He who steals the minaret shall find a case to hide it.
Every case begins from the stomach.
From confessors, doctors, and lawyers, do not conceal the truth of your case.
The real world is a special case.
Men are blind in their own case.
If we stand tall it is because we stand on the backs of those who came before us.
Truth came to market but could not be sold; however, we buy lies with ready cash.
A goat thief came along and they put him in jail.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan, along comes the beetle and sticks out her foot.
The house is our father's and the strangers came to kick us out.
Who came back from the grave and told the story?
A bull went to impregnate a cow, and he came back a fetus.
They laugh at you when your going but when you came back with a load they're a shamed.
A whistling girl and a crowing hen never came to a good end.
The idea came after the drunkness passed away.
A gosling flew over the Rhine, and came home a goose.
There are as many good fish in the sea as ever came out of it.
It was not on one foot that St. Patrick came to Ireland.
Thinking of where you are going, you forget from whence you came.
Dearth foreseen never came.
He who does not know to look where he came from will never get to his destination.
He came time enough who was hung by candlelight.
Bad times came to be; hens on thrones we were to see.
He who came to work never sleeps.
The crow went traveling abroad and came back just as black.
Rima came back to her old habits.
Came back with Hunain's shoes. meaning: Came back with nothing.
When they came to milk the cow she said "I am an ox", and when they came to harness her she said "I am a cow".
This bolt came never out of your bag.
There came never ill of good Advisement.
There never came ill after good advertisement.
God made things straight, the devil came and twisted them.
Love came in a paper bag, said the maiden when she got a letter from her sweetheart.
The horn that came out last will pass the ear that came out first.
A hoe made small from loving work came to visit and together we cultivated our relationship. When united everything is possible.
If age and experience came at birth, We would have neither youth nor mirth.
The day I did not make my toilette, there came to my house one I did not expect.
The day I did not sweep the house, there came to it one I did not expect.
He came back empty-handed.
Tales came like out of the barrel of a machine gun.
Christianity came through Turku to Finland, and through Turku / goes from Finland away also.
A drop I was, / came to the sea, / I want to become a drop again.
It came a wrinkle to love.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan.
We went as fools and came back as arch-fools.
I came to the place of my birth and cried, I came to the place of my birth and cried, "The friends of my youth, where are they?" And echo answered, "Where are they?"
Between the two stools he came to the ground.
Conceived by no father, conceived by no mother, the reed came out of the breast of the storm.
(He/She) went looking for wool and came back shorn.
It's like catching 2 eels at a time.
Don't butter the skillet before catching the fish.
Don't estimate the value of a badger skin before catching the badger.
Nothing should be done in a hurry except catching fleas.
There's no catching trouts with dry breeches.
He who has a straw tail is always in fear of its catching fire.
Nothing is ever well done in a hurry, except flying from the plague or from quarrels, and catching fleas.
Dont make sauce before catching fish.
It is ill catching hares with drums.
Mocking is catching.
Maybe the last dog is catching the hare.
Youth is beauty, even in cattle.
Behind every sweaty face of a cattle rustler is a story of determination and courage.
All hat and no cattle.
He who has cattle on the hill will not sleep easy.
Our neighbour's crop is always more fruitful and his cattle produce more milk than our own.
A home without a woman is like a barn without cattle.
The cattle is as good as the pasture in which it grazes.
Where the cattle does not graze, the warriors pass.
Cattle die and kinsmen die, thyself too soon must die, but one thing never, I ween, will die, the doom on each one dead.
Those who do not study are only cattle dressed up in men's clothes.
Where the cattle stand together, the lion lies down hungry.
What never kills a herdsman never takes away his cattle.
Where the cattle are, there the wolf shall die.
There is seldom cattle without some motley animals.
Cattle die, kinsmen die, and so shall you die too. But one thing I know that never dies: the fame of a dead man's deeds.
A good cowman knows how to lie to the tax collector and the cattle buyer.
Hurry no man's cattle.
Caution minimizes loss.
Caution is the parent of delicate beer-glasses.
Unless the broken tooth is thrown out the mouth will continue to chew with caution.
Much caution does no harm.
Young courage and old caution are a strong pair.
Caution is a parent of safety.
Distrust and caution are the parents of security.
Caution is the downfall to ambition.
Danger begets caution.
An excess of caution does no harm.
If poor, act with caution.
When the cart breaks down, advice abounds.
To put the horse behind the cart.
Law is like a shaft of a cart, it points wherever you turn it to.
It is not the horse that draws the cart, but the oats.
Do not put the cart before the horse.
Don't upset the apple cart.
A creaking cart goes long on the wheels.
Cheating is the chapman's cart and plough.
‘what a dust we kick up,' as the fly said to the cart wheel.
From someone else's cart you have to get off halfway.
To make the cart go you must grease the wheels.
A little stone overturns a great cart.
Small tree trunks can make the cart turn over.
Many will show you the way once your cart has overturned.
The wheel of karma always repeats itself. Just like wheels of a cart.
Better on the heath with an old cart that at sea in a new ship.
The cart ruins the road, the woman the man, the water the wine.
As soon as your cart is turned over, everyone rushes to give you advice.
The cart is still there.
The one who pulls a cart is urged on.
A fifth wheel to a cart is but an encumbrance.
Wisdom and virtue are like the two wheels of a cart.
Putting the cart before the horse.
An old cart well used may outlast a new one abused.
A little stone may upset a large cart.
It is the good horse that draws its own cart.
It's easier for the horses when the woman gets off the cart.
It is a cart if it travels well, else it is but timber.
It is a cart if it goes well, otherwise it is but timber.
Put the cart before the horse.
The pole of his cart is pointing outwards.
It is easy to push a cart drawn by twelve oxen.
Do not run after a cart that will not take you.
There is no loaded cart which could not carry one more forkful.
The worst wheel of a cart creaks most.
If I can get his cart at a Waltar, I shall lend it a put.
A cart horse doesn't last long.
What fell off the cart is [as good as] gone.
It is easier for the horse when a woman gets off the cart.
To set the cart before the horse.
Do not put the cart before the horse.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
A small log will overthrow a big cart.
The nile has no resting place it wanderes around carrying a log.
An elephant does not get tired carrying his trunk.
There is no use in carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking.
Thieves don't like to see their comrades carrying the bags.
Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks.
It's no use carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking.
Be like a camel - carrying sweets but dining on thorns.
A dog won't bite you if you are carrying a stick.
Sharing a secret with a rogue is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
When they fooled the chicken they threw her into a carrying basket.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying a grain in a bag with a hole in it.
Where the river makes a sound, you can be sure it's carrying water.
The elephant never gets tired of carrying its tusks.
An elephant never tires of carrying his own trunk.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
Those who remove mountains begin by carrying away small stones.
He is good, only the devils are bad, for not carrying him away.
Carrying saut to dysart and puddings to tranent.
Nobody grumbles while carrying a load, but when he has laid it down.
No war has been fought by men carrying a calabash of ‘njohi' but of ‘ucuru'.
Carrying coals to Newcastle.
Those who are carrying elephants home on their heads, need not use their toes to dig up crickets on the way.
A person who is extremely cautious in doing something.
You can be cautious about the future but not the past.
Be cautious but polite.
More cautious than a crow.
One cannot be cautious enough.
If you cannot be chaste, be cautious.
Losses make us more cautious.
A cautious man will observe the indications of character which nature reveals in others.
Cautious in small matters, careless in great.
Fortunate is he whom the dangers of others have rendered cautious.
A calf is not found under an ox.
A nobleman's calf does not know how a butcher kills.
Cows forget that they were calves.
Do not search for a calf under an ox.
The cow steps on the calf, but she does not hate it.
What a cow eats a calf drinks.
He bawls like a calf because he is as weak as a kitten.
A calf that is sucking does not bellow.
calf is given, but then thigh is requested.
Don't eat the calf in the cow's belly.
He that bulls the cow must keep the calf.
They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow.
Who steals a calf, steals a cow.
When the calf is stolen, the peasant mends the stall.
The cow licks no strange calf.
Show the fatted calf, but not the thing that fattened him.
To every cow its calf; to every book its copy.
The knee is closer than the calf.
The calf isn't even born yet and there he is sharpening his carving knife.
The old cow forgets that she was once a calf.
The calves do not fear the horns of their mother.
If you see that a town worships a calf, then cut the grass and feed it.
A hungry calf cannot frisk happily over another with a full stomach.
The cow has forgotten she was once a calf.
Many a good cow has an evil calf.
He who has carried the calf will be able by and by to carry the ox.
A lean calf forgets to skip.
Many a good cow has a bad calf.
The gentle calf sucks all the cows.
If you let them put the calf on your shoulders, it will not be long before they clap on the cow.
He stares at the new gate as a calf.
A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat.
A fat cow makes a thin calf.
The cow is given a present when her calf is carried away.
The cow that drops her calf in the sun feeds it there too.
When water reaches up to the nose, the calf is a swimmer.
When the calf is drowned they cover the well.
The nearest boor is the nearest kinsman when the calf lies in the ditch.
It is the old cow's notion that she never was a calf.
When they give you the calf, be ready with the halter.
He that steals a calf steals a cow.
When the poor man's buffalo calves every one runs with his pail (for milk).
The affectionate calf sucks [udders of] two cows.
The cow is given a present when her calf is carried away.
If you agree to carry the calf, they'll make you carry the cow.
As soon dies the calf as the cow.
Cease your jests, there is no joke in being ill-natured.
Do not seek the truth, only cease to cherish your opinions.
Because men do not like the cold, Heaven does not cause winter to cease.
Cease to do evil, learn to do well.
Spread the table and contention will cease.
Cease your snow balls casting.
They cease to be friends who dwell afar off.
Do not cease to drink beer, to eat, to intoxicate thyself, to make love, and to celebrate the good days.
Wonders will never cease.
Don't curse the darkness, light a candle.
Light a candle for God and another for the devil.
Acquaintance without patience is like a candle with no light.
Never burn a penny candle looking for a halfpenny.
Never burn your fingers to snuff another man's candle.
Don't sell the sun to buy a candle.
You may light another's candle with your own without loss.
Protect the flame of your candle and it will light more.
Cover your candle, it will light more.
Life? That is a candle in the wind; frost upon a roof; the twitching of the fish in a pan.
Burning the candle at both ends.
A candle lights others and consumes itself.
If you light one candle for God, then you must light two for the devil.
A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle.
Whoever stays awake longest must blow out the candle.
The best candle is understanding.
He needs a long candle who awaits the death of another.
The fly flutters about the candle till at last it gets burnt.
One must sometimes hold a candle to the devil.
You don't need a candle to look for a fool.
Burning the candle at both ends.
The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord.
Life is a candle before the wind.
A thriftless woman burns the entire candle looking for a match.
The life of an old man can be compared with the flame of a candle in a drought.
Life is like a candle in the wind; like frost on the roof; like the wriggling of the fish in the pan.
Don't burn the candle at both ends.
The absent saint gets no candle.
The game isn't worth the candle.
The best way to see divine light is to put out your own candle.
A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle.
There is no saint so petty but claims his own candle.
He has sold the sun to buy a candle.
Sometimes one has to light a candle for the devil too.
By candle light, neither women nor cloth.
Around and around, the moth dies in the candle flame.
What good serve candle and glasses, if the owl does not want to see.
He burns the candle at both ends.
The candle that goes before gives the best light.
To every saint his candle.
One candle for St. Michael, and another for his devil.
Thanks to one small candle the whole of Moscow burns.
A liar's candle will burn until bed-time.
Unshared joy is an unlighted candle.
It does no harm now and then to burn a candle for the devil.
It's better to light a candle than curse the darkness.
To burn the candle at both ends. (1678)
He has sold the sun to buy a candle.
Even the candle seller dies in the dark.
Never burn your fingers to snuff another man's candle.
Many candles can be kindled from one candle without diminishing it.
When you find your saint light your candle.
The fly that plays too long in the candle, singes his wings at last.
As you have spent the candle, spend the inch.
When the two ends of the candle are lighted it does not stand long.
One person's candle furnishes light for many.
It is sometimes good to hold a candle to the devil.
Ye'll neither dance or haud the candle.
The weakest must hold the candle.
Never cast a clout till May be out.
Doubtful the die, and dire the cast.
Coming events cast their shadow before.
Only tall things cast shadows.
All men are not cast in the same mold.
A cast is not a catch.
Don't cast your pearls before swine.
Words, cast them to the wind.
Anger is as a stone cast into a wasp's nest.
Cast no dirt into the well that gives you water.
Cast not pearls to swine.
You cannot weld cake-dough to cast iron, nor a girl to an old man.
Ne'er cast a clout till May be out.
Don't cast your pearls before swine.
Cast the beam out of your own eye before you try to cast the mote from the eyes of your neighbour.
Coming events cast their shadows before.
Never cast a clout till May be out.
Let him who is without sin cast the first stone.
To cast pearls before swine.
Give a man luck and cast him into the sea.
Fear may force a man to cast beyond the moon.
Cast a bane in the deil's teeth.
You have cast away your own for that which you are not sure of.
Cast no roses before swine.
Small people always cast big shadows.
He that lets his fish escape, may cast his net often yet never catch it again.
The best cast at dice is not to play.
It is not easy suddenly to cast aside a fancy long indulged in.
Passing the Rubicon.
When he arrived at the banks of the Rubicon, which divides Cisalpine Gaul from the rest of Italy ... he stopped to deliberate.... At last he cried out: "The die is cast" and immediately passed the river.
Cast no dirt into the well that gives you water.
Wink at small faults unless you can cast the first stone.
The die is cast.
An ill win penny will cast down a pound.
You don't cast a net into a river that has no fish.
Old sins cast long shadows.
Every one has his place: the dead in the cemetery and the living at the table.
Those that dislike cats will be carried to the cemetery in the rain.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
The one who knows the way to the cemetery carries the tail end of the coffin.
From the cemetery no one is brought back.
The only real equality is in the cemetery.
Priests dressed in black bring bad tidings, in white they take you to the cemetery.
Closeness without conflict only exists in the cemetery.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
A mule laden with gold is welcome at every castle.
Better lady in a cottage than serving-woman in a castle.
A fair wife and a frontier castle breed quarrels.
An Englishman's house (home) is his castle.
He builds a castle by demolishing a country.
A cabin with plenty of food is better than a hungry castle.
He thinks that he himself is the very stone that was hurled at the castle.
My home is my castle.
There is no room for two kings in one castle.
An englishman's home is his castle.
Grain by grain, a loaf; stone by stone, a castle.
Easy to keep the castle that was never besieged.
A small cottage wherein laughter lives is worth more than a castle full of tears.
A cat in its castle has a lion's teeth.
A man's home is his castle.
A nail secures the horse-shoe, the shoe the horse, the horse the man, the man the castle, and the castle the whole land.
Don't be ever in court or a castle without a woman to make your excuse.
My house is my castle.
In the countryside eat cardoon, because at the castle you'll eat pigeon.
The castle gates will always open for gold-laden donkeys.
He who has a good looking wife, a castle on the river, or a vineyard on the roadside is never without war.
He who has a handsome wife, a castle on the frontier, or a vineyard on the roadside, is never without war.
A king's castle is his home.
He keeps watch over a good castle who has guarded his own constitution.
A man's home is his castle.
A cat in its castle has lion's teeth.
Marriage is like a besieged castle; those who are on the outside wish to get in; and those who are on the inside wish to get out.
I have a good bow, but it is in the Castle.
Grain by grain, a loaf; stone by stone, a castle.
Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand.
Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
You come with a cat and call it a rabbit.
If you call one wolf, you invite the pack.
Call on God, but row away from the rocks.
The cobra will bite you whether you call it cobra or Mr. Cobra.
If you call a lady a slave, she laughs, but if you call a slave a slave, he cries.
No call alligator long mouth till you pass him.
Friendship, we call it friendship, but without sincerity.
You play with a snake and call it a worm.
Call a woman a harlot and you make her one.
Don't call in the doctor after the funeral.
Fortune will call at the smiling gate.
Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market.
You may preach ever so long to the wolf, he will nevertheless call for the lamb before night.
Never call a Kerry man a fool until you're sure he's not a rogue.
Eat of your own, and call yourself mine.
You should not call in a cat to settle the argument of two birds.
A Tatar says to a Tatar: Call me Aga and I will call you Aga, and we shall both be Agas.
A priest is a man who is called Father by everyone except his own children who are obliged to call him Uncle.
Enjoy yourself; for there is nothing in the world we can call our own.
Alligator shouldn' call hog long mout.
Me no call you no come.
Man noh dead, noh call ‘im duppy.
As the call, so the echo.
The forest will answer you in the way you call to it.
If you call a piece of wood ‘child', you can never use it to light fire since it has become so precious.
We only call our friends if we need help, and we don't help our friends in need.
You may call me even a pot, just don't put me into the oven.
Call a pot, just don't put into the oven.
Call the bear "uncle” till you are safe across the bridge.
As the call, so the echo.
Call me not fortunate till you see me buried.
When three people call you an ass, put on a bridle.
Don't call me a little olive until you've picked me.
Don't worry if people call you ordinary - only if you are ordinary.
Unless you call out, who will open the door?
Speak plain -- call bread bread, and wine wine.
They call their aunt only when her cucumbers are ripe.
Where there is a friend, one does not have to call, he will come of his own accord.
In sweet converse call the righteous to thy side, learn a healing song while thou livest.
When yuh see a man fishing in a dry pond don't call he a fool.
Where there is a friend, one does not have to call, he will come of his own accord.
Better go without medicine than call in an unskilled physician.
The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their right names.
The pure, upon seeing it pure, call it pure.
Call kinship with the hyena, and all hyenas are your friend.
Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand.
If I see you often, I can't call you a visitor.
What you may call small another will call it big.
Where your mother is born, you can't call anyone a child.
What we do with pity another would call it strength.
One doesn't call a hyena to displine a troublesome goat.
A dog you don't feed will never heed your call.
Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle.
When a hundred men call a wise man a fool, then he becomes a fool.
Call me anything but late for dinner.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Call a spade a spade.
You may call that your own which no one can take from you.
To call war the soil of courage and virtue is like calling debauchery the soil of love.
Call no man happy till he dies.
Call not a surgeon before you are wounded.
Call the bear uncle till you are safe across the bridge.
Give equal in reply, answer according to the call.
The crocodile does not die under the water so that we can call the monkey to celebrate its funeral.
It is he who has no place to call at that moves fast through life.
Enjoy yourself, for there is nothing in the world we can call our own.
Don't call a man who has a field in valgonu "poor”.
On april 8th, the cuckoo's call must be heard.
When you have brains to go along with your wealth you can call yourself happy and content.
Don't call a man honest just because he never had the chance to steal.
Who has no intention to pray has no ears for the call to prayer.
Where there are no sheep, they call the goat princess.
Call not a surgeon before you are wounded.
Tell your affairs in the market-place, and one will call them black and another white.
He who has a son grown up should not call another a thief.
Call me not olive before you see me gathered.
That country will I call mine which supports me, not that which gave me birth.
No man can call again yesterday.
When they wish to eat a vulture, they call it a guinea fowl.
Should you ever call your husband 'appā,' however much you may like him?
The crocodile does not die under the water so that we can call the monkey to celebrate its funeral.
Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand.
Don't call the alligator "big-mouth" till you have crossed the river.
If my grandma had balls I'd call her granddad.
Difficult tasks call for strong men.
The opinion of the intelligent is better than the certainty of the ignorant.
Better the certainty of the straddle than the mere loan of a saddle.
Pity him who makes an opinion a certainty.
If you forsake a certainty and depend on an uncertainty, you will lose both the certainty and the uncertainty.
Certainty is better than hope.
To believe in certainty, we must begin by doubting.
And slip na certainty for howp.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance.
Mistrust is the mother of certainty.
One certainty is better than ten uncertainties.
A woman will be twice bound when her chains feel comfortable.
You can't bind a cloud even with copper chains.
Chains of gold are stronger than chains of iron.
It is better to be in chains with friends, than to be in a garden with strangers.
An old dog can't get used to chains.
First cobwebs, then chains.
Poor thieves in halters we behold; And great thieves in their chains of gold.
Old chains gall less than new.
All are not free who mock their chains.
Little thieves have iron chains, and great thieves gold ones.
They are not free who drag their chains behind them.
The very time I thought I was lost, my dungeon shook and my chains fell off.
Koskela from Finland. Eats iron and shits chains.
The king's chaff is better than other folk's corn.
No corn without chaff.
No wheat without chaff.
If we reject the chaff, we may easily lose the kernel.
You cannot eat downwind, you will get the chaff in your eyes.
Curses: like chaff, who throws them, catches them.
Who sows wheat with the devil will get its chaff.
You have to separate the chaff from the wheat.
You cannot catch old birds with chaff.
There is no wheat without chaff.
A king's chaff is worth more than other men's corn.
One takes care of one's own: when a bachelor roasts yam, he share's it with his sheep.
A year's care, a minute's ruin.
Care now, be cared for later.
No matter how much care is taken, someone will always be misled.
If the tail of the dog can save me, I don't care about its stench.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Take care how you beseech the Gods for a gift, for they will give it to you.
Take care of the dimes and the dollars will take care of themselves.
Good care prevents accidents.
A pound of care will not pay an ounce of debt.
A man's first care should be to avoid the reproaches of his own heart, his next to escape the censures of the world.
Care brings on grey hairs, and age without years.
What does the moon care if the dogs bay at her?
Good care takes the head off bad luck.
Much coin, much care.
A doctor will take care of the rich man; the poor man is cured with work.
God takes care of a blind cow.
When the fox preaches, take care of yourselves, hens.
Italy will take care of itself.
Let every fox take care of his own tail.
When the sun shines on thee, thou needest not care for the moon.
Without debt without care.
If you are already wet, you won't care about the rain.
Noh care how boar hog try fi hide under sheep wool, ‘im grunt always betray ‘im.
Who takes care of a cat will take care of a horse too.
Who takes care of a widow's ‘hole' will inherit the heavenly kingdom.
If you care for healing the tooth of a tutsi that he recovers, he will surely bite you to-morrow.
Care is the mother of the porcelain cabinet.
Borrowing brings care.
Great wealth, great care.
He is past preaching who does not care to do well.
We do not care of what we have, but we cry when it is lost.
Take care of your dress from when it's new and your honor from your youth.
God takes care of the one who takes care of himself.
He who has no wife, is for thrashing her daily; but he that has one, takes care of her.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools.
A pound of care will not pay a pound of debt.
Another's care hangs by a hair.
A man can't get rich if he takes proper care of his family.
In the South they don't care how close you get, as long as you don't get too high. In the North, they don't care how high you get, as long as you don't get too close.
What care is a friend worth? what handling can a chickling take?
Care about your students.
Care shall gnaw thy heart if thou canst not tell all thy mind to another.
When a fox preaches, take care of your geese.
If you have no time to take care of your sickness, you get time to die.
He don't care if good friday come pon a sunday.
He who selects coconut with great care ends up getting a bad coconut.
What is not urgent must be done quickly in order to take care of the urgent things calmly.
One can care little for man, but we need a friend.
If you were in a place you take care of it has if it where yours.
If the moon is with you, you need not care about the stars.
To carry care to bed is to sleep with a pack on your back.
A wise duck takes care of its bill.
Don't care lost his corn patch.
The devil takes care of his own.
Take care of your pennies and your pounds will take care of your heirs and barristers.
Far from court, far from care.
When everyone takes care of himself, care is taken of all.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
A heart free from care is better than a full purse.
Great care is no defense against Fate.
The more shepherds, the less care.
Love's plant must be watered with tears, and tended with care.
He who takes no care of little things, will not have the care of great ones.
Care killed the cat.
Do good, and care not to whom.
Do good, and care not to whom.
Take care you don't let your tail be caught in the door.
The truth is a heavy burden that few care to carry.
Riches bring care and fears.
Care and diligence bring luck.
Better saucht with little aucht, nor care with many cow.
For a tint thing care not.
Take care of your pennies and your dollars will take care of themselves.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a farmer too lazy to plant his field.
Your first care must be the care of your own heart.
I'll take care of today, let God take care of tomorrow.
Take care of the manger and water the animals at the drinking trough.
Care for the land, care for the people, go forward.
Provide for the worst; the best can take care of itself.
Who has but one eye must take good care of it.
A galled horse does not care to be curried.
He who wants to travel far takes care of his beast.
Care for your horse as a friend; ride it as if it were an enemy.
He who buts a horse buys care.
One takes care of the horse, another rides it.
Let the sun shine on me, for I care not for the moon.
A donkey is a donkey though it may carry the Sultan's treasure.
It is better to carry stones with a wise man than accept the meal of a madman.
If a man from humble beginnings gets rich, he will carry his umbrella at midnight.
Two birds disputed about a kernel, when a third swooped down and carried it off.
An elephant can never fail to carry its tusks.
The voice of a poor man does not carry very far.
A dog cannot carry its puppies on its back.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow.
To carry coals to Newcastle.
Let what is on this side of the bank be washed out by the flood, and what is on that side of the bank be carried away by the wind.
A child is like an axe; even if it hurts, you still carry them on your shoulders.
Asses carry the oats and horses eat them.
Carry bread in your hood to Don Garcia's wedding.
A heavy burden does not kill on the day it is carried.
Shrimp that sleeps is carried by the tide.
Words and feathers are carried away by the wind.
When he opens up his path, may he carry me along, safe and sound.
A proverb is the horse that can carry one swiftly to the discovery of ideas.
Better to struggle with a sick jackass than carry the wood by yourself.
Chop wood, carry water.
Every elephant has to carry its own trunk around.
If you carry treasure, don't travel at night.
When the palm nuts ripen, you carry half and I carry half.
If you are not so strong, don't carry heavy burdens.
On which soil we stand on, that is where we carry the weight of the sky.
He who is being carried does not realize how far the town is.
He who is carried on another's back does not appreciate how far off the town is.
No matter how big a child is, he cannot deny that he was once carried on the back of a woman.
You cannot expect me to carry you on my back and then you say my head smells.
He that takes the devil into his boat must carry him over the sound.
Fortune is weary to carry one and the same man always.
Two watermelons cannot be carried in one hand.
Similar to a bee: in their mouths they carry sweet honey, and in their tails poison.
Let every pedlar carry his own pack.
A good trade will carry farther than a thousand florins.
Don't carry your head too high, the door is low.
It's a poor sheep that cannot carry its own wool.
They are not all cooks who carry long knives.
A hen is heavy when carried far.
Where the body wants to rest, there the legs must carry it.
Who makes the wolf his companion should carry a dog under his cloak.
When there is a fire in the neighbourhood carry water to your own house.
When your neighbor's house is on fire, carry water to your own.
His whole life he carried his wife on his back.
It is the fear of what tomorrow may bring that makes the tortoise to carry his house along with him wherever he goes.
It is by the strength of their number that the ants in the field are able to carry their prey to the nest.
One goat cannot carry another goat's tail.
The man being carried does not realize how far away the town really is.
Long skirts carry dust, but short skirts carry away souls.
A short man carry a hunchback man.
To a man wine is like water is to the boat; it can carry him or guzzle him up.
Don't help the elephant to carry his tusks.
Man dat carry straw no fe fool wid fire.
Strong legs are needed to carry good days.
Skill is not a heavy load to carry.
If he won't carry the sack, give him a whack.
Those that dislike cats will be carried to the cemetery in the rain.
Do not carry rubbish out of your hut.
Do you carry the trough, husband, and I will carry the sieve, which is as heavy as the devil.
Sin is carried in the mouth.
An empty knapsack is heavier to carry than a full one.
Better a donkey that tarries than one that won't carry its load.
A person who is being carried to the market does not realize that the way is long.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
Mother carry me, and I tomorrow will carry you.
The burden one likes is cheerfully carried.
Mackerel sky and mares' tails make lofty ships carry low sails.
Ya bringing ya dumplings to carry way ma rice.
Mother carry me, and I tomorrow will carry you.
Don't carry all your eggs in one basket.
If a man gives you a basket to carry water, it means that he hates you.
The womb is not a boat, it cannot carry as much.
He who is carried on the back must cling on.
It takes little effort to watch a man carry a load.
The wind that carried the mortar will not fail to carry the pestle.
The womb is not a boat, it cannot carry as much as a boat.
Good resolutions are like babies crying in church, they should be carried out immediately.
Society is like a pot it can't carry water when its broken.
It is easier to carry an empty cup than one that is filled to the brim.
If you carry the egg basket do not dance.
That you don't give birth too, you let him or her carry a stone on the head.
Even though the elephant is huge enough it cannot carry a big tail.
Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
To carry care to bed is to sleep with a pack on your back.
The baby who always gets carried will never learn to walk.
He who has carried the calf will be able by and by to carry the ox.
A deer tethered with a golden chain can escape to the forest to eat grass.
The wolf is not afraid of the sheepdog, but he is of his chain.
It is ill done to chain a dragon for roasting your meat.
A golden ring can tie a man as tight as any chain.
He is not free who drags his chain after him.
A thread will tie an honest man better than a chain a rogue.
You cannot tie up a dog with a chain of sausages.
No ebery chain you hear a fe rollin'calf.
Treachery darkens the chain of friendship, but truth makes it brighter than ever.
Break one link and the whole chain falls apart.
One link broken, the whole chain is broken.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
If a link is broken, the whole chain breaks.
If one link has broken so has the whole chain.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
The chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
The one who went to La Villa, lost his/her chair.
A big chair does not make a king.
He who wants content can't find an easy chair.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you visit a place where the chief himself sits on floor.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you are visiting a place where the chief sits on the floor.
Worry is like a rocking chair it swings you back and forth and it takes you nowhere.
Worrying is like sitting in a rocking chair. It gives you something to do but it doesn't get you anywhere.
A rickety chair will not long serve as a seat.
He that wants content canna sit easy in his chair.
A large chair does not make a king.
If you see a frog squatting on his house, don't ask him for a chair.
Every camel was once upon time two years old.
When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height.
A man prolonging his age sees a camel giving birth.
The camel is also large, but it is also brought to its knees and loaded.
If you fall in love let her be a beauty; if you should steal, let it be a camel.
Two things cannot be hidden: being astride a camel and being pregnant.
Death is a camel that lies down at every door.
Where the camel is sold for a cent, the ass is worthless.
If Ali is the camel-driver, he knows where to rest his camel.
Either the camel, or the camel man.
Good advice once was worth a camel; now that it is free of charge, no one takes it.
If you love, love the moon; if you steal, steal a camel.
Better half a donkey than half a camel.
The barking of a dog does not disturb the man on a camel.
A camel does not tease another camel about his humps.
When a slave mounts a camel he wants to ride on both humps.
A camel does not joke about the hump of another camel.
By all means trust in Allah, but tie your camel first.
Little by little, the camel goes into the couscous.
Better the gurgling of a camel than the prayers of a fish.
The camel driver has his plans and the camel has his.
He who has no job should search for a camel.
When the shooting starts climb on your camel and head for the mountaintops.
He who rides a camel should not be afraid of dogs.
Is the white camel made of fat?
One camel does not make fun of another camel's hump.
A camel never sees its own hump.
No matter how tall a camel is, it will never get taller than than the hair on its back.
Trust in God, but tie your camel.
Trust allah, but tie up your camel.
Death rides a fast camel.
A camel does not drink with a spoon.
Be like a camel - carrying sweets but dining on thorns.
A camel is not a animal and an arab is not a human being.
No camel route is long with good company.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
The first camel in the train holds everyone up, but it is the last which gets the beating.
One camel does not make fun of the other camel's hump.
Trust in Allah, but tie your camel.
Better a handful of dried figs and content with that, than to own the gate of peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
If the camel once get his nose in a tent, the body will soon follow.
Beware of the camel going to seek horns, he lost his ears.
A camel cannot see the crookedness of its neck.
The camel and his driver -- each has his own plan.
The camel asking for horns lost also his ears.
Better a handful of dry dates and content therewith than to own the Gate of Peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
He who steals an egg will steal a camel.
Death is a black camel which kneels at every man's gate.
If the camel once get his nose in the tent, his body will follow.
Tie your camel and rely on God.
Trust in Allah, but tie your camel first.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door.
To go safely through the world you must have the eye of a falcon, the ear of an ass, the face of an ape, the mouth of a pig, the shoulders of a camel, and the legs of a deer.
To have "Heard say” is half a lie.
To strain at a gnat and swallow a camel.
The camel going to seek horns, lost his ears.
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
Tumbleweed entered the mouth of the lying camel.
Tumbleweed will not enter into the mouth of the lying camel.
The camel stallion grows old, the camel foal grows up.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
Death is the black camel that kneels before every door.
Even a mangy camel will carry more that a herd of asses.
When a camel falls to the ground, the knives are many.
When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height.
My father rode a camel, I shall ride a pick-up.
A camel does not tease another camel about its humps.
The ostrich was asked to carry a load, it said. I'm a bird. It was asked to fly, it said, I'm a camel.
Yoke not a camel and a cat together. Be free to ask ‘Why?'
Trust in God - but tie your camel tight. ~ Persian Proverb.
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
Many ants kill a camel.
A person changing his clothing always hides while changing.
Times keep changing.
Changing priorities.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
Time, wine, women, and fortune, are ever changing.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
Changing of works is lighting of hearts.
A man changing his abode is like a woman marrying.
A perfect whipping-top for changing sides.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
Live for a century ? learn for a century.
Aesop, "The Swallow and the Other Birds" (c. 6th century BC)
Accidents will happen in the best families. (19th century)
Cold as charity. (14th century)
In at one ear and out at the other. (14th century)
There is no smoke without fire. (15th century, Citatboken)
Friends are thieves of time. (17th century)
Don't have too many irons in the fire. (16th century) (Citatboken)
Might is right. (14th century)
As proud as Lucifer. (14th century)
He makes a rod for his own back. (14th century)
To know where the shoe pinches. (14th century)
Silence gives consent. (14th century)
As slippery as an eel. (15th century)
To sow one's wild oats. (16th century)
There is no time like the present. (18th century) (Citatboken)
Touch wood. (20th century)
He is worth his weight in gold. (16th century)
Youth and age will never agree. (16th century)
Jack of all trades and master of None. (18th century)
All is fair in love and war. (17th century)
The coast is clear. (17th century)
The day is short and the work is long. (15th century)
Far from eye, far from heart. (14th century)
He is a fool that forgets himself. (14th century)
Young saint, old devil. (15th century)
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. - English, 17th century.
Nothing in this world is certain but death and next winter's snows.
Nothing is certain but death and taxes.
Nothing is certain but the unforeseen.
Only death is certain.
If yu de shit, an' si certain people/person a come; sidong inna it.
Give at first asking what you safely can; 'tis certain gain to help an honest man.
Every village has certain drawbacks to it.
The moon lightens well but leaves certain areas in the dark.
If you want a certain thing, you must first be a certain person. Once you are that certain person, obtaining that certain thing will no longer be a concern of yours.
Be certain and on the level.
Children are certain sorrow, but uncertain joy.
Some people may have reasons unknown to you for doing certain things.
A child is a certain sorrow and uncertain joy.
If the rich man is fawning over the poor man, you can be certain that he needs something.
He who seeks his goat with the man who ate it, is certain not to find it.
'tis sweet at certain times to drop the sage.
Of your wife and your tried friend believe nothing but what you know for certain.
Aim at a certain issue.
No gain is as certain as that which proceeds from the economical use of what you already have.
We lose the certain things, while we seek the uncertain ones.
Truth lies within a little and certain compass, but error is immense. (Henry St. John)
Nothing is certain but death and taxes.
Only two things in life are certain; death and taxes.
Only three things in life are certain birth, death and change.
Children are certain cares, but uncertain comforts.
Don't expect to be long in this world, but try to be good while you are in it, for death is certain.
The worst is not always certain but it's very likely.
Good advice once was worth a camel; now that it is free of charge, no one takes it.
I will charge thee nothing but the promise that thee will help the next man thee finds in trouble.
What! give the lettuce in charge to the geese!
Death does not come free of charge, for it costs us our life.
Charge nae mair shot than the piece ‘ll bear.
Charge your friend ere you need.
Charge nothing and you'll get a lot of customers.
Things go badly when everyone's in charge.
When I was young, the parents were in change, but now the children are in charge.
A cow that has no tail should not try to chase away flies.
A coquettish woman is like a shadow -- as you chase her she runs away, and if you run away, she chases after you.
A kitchen dog never was good for the chase.
If you chase away an ant, all the ants will come and bite you.
Like the cat in the tree, getting caught up in the chase can leave us in an awkward place.
A cow without a tail should not try to chase away flies.
No matter how fast a man can run, he can never chase his shadow and catch it.
If you chase two rabbits you will catch none.
A stern chase is a long chase.
If you chase two hares at the same time, you will catch neither of them.
Lose an hour in the morning, chase it all day.
Once a word leaves your mouth, you cannot chase it back even with the swiftest horse.
The thrill is in the chase, not the quarry.
When you chase a fellow man reserve the strength to switch you back when he recharges and turns.
It will be fool's hardy for the ant to chase an elephant.
If you chase two rabbits [at the same time], you won't catch either of them.
Better to hold it than to chase it.
A bad cause requires many words.
There is a cause for all things.
If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity.
Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour.
Other people's children cause your nostrils to flare.
Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face.
Greed will cause pain.
The mouth is the cause of calamity.
The consequence is the reward of the cause.
The smoke caused by meat which is roasted does not cause pain in the eyes of a hungry person.
Men are blind in their own cause.
Charity sees the need not the cause.
Security is the first cause of misfortune.
Charity looks at the need, not at the cause.
He never was a friend who ceased to be so for a slight cause.
He who is the cause of his own misfortune may bewail it himself.
Plenty of words when the cause is lost.
A hand that is ready to hit may cause you great trouble.
The best cause requires a good champion.
There's a cause of everything.
one ill behaviour may cause others to forget the kindness we've done.
If a man is unhappy, his conduct is the cause.
There is nothing without a cause.
There is no pleasure that does not cause one's cheeks to tremble.
Women's quarrels cause the men's wars.
Because men do not like the cold, Heaven does not cause winter to cease.
A single slip may cause lasting injury.
Consider whether your fun will cause another's unhappiness.
Disputing and borrowing cause grief and sorrowing.
A good cause finds weapons to defend it.
Careless hurry may cause endless regret.
He that is angry without a cause shall be pleased without amends.
No one ought to be judge in his own cause.
A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Butter spoils no meat, and moderation injures no cause.
Silence and reflection cause no dejection.
Disputing and borrowing cause grief and sorrowing.
Jealousy is a pain seeking its cause.
Riches cause arrogance; poverty, meekness.
What you give for the cause of charity in health is gold; what you give in sickness is silver; what you give after death is lead.
It's an ill cause that a lawyer thinks shame of.
A man who eases himself in public, gives cause to others to despise him.
The weaknesses of old age are no fit cause for laughter, since they must be our own portion at the end.
Neither draw me without cause, nor return me without honour.
A man may cause his own dog to bite him.
Blaming the wrong reason/cause or creating a scapegoat.
Everyone is eloquent in his own cause.
It is cruel to refer to those things which cause sorrow.
The cause at an end, the effect is removed.
It won't be dull in hell 'cause there are many companions.
I thank myself 'cause the others won't do it.
To have two eyes is cause for pride.
A guest should not cause his host's demise. When the guest is ready to leave, his host should not have given him a hunch-back.
No one should be judge in his own cause.
Swimming right after eating will cause cramps and you'll drown.
If a man is unhappy, his conduct is the cause.
Nobody hates anybody without cause.
Consider whether your fun will cause another's unhappiness.
He that is angry without a cause shall be pleased without amends.
Men are blind in their own cause.
One can cause the illness which he wanted to cure.
There is nothing without a cause.
A leopard is chasing us, and you are asking me, "Is it a male or a female?"
The hyena chasing two gazelles at the same will go to bed hungry.
Nothing is worse than waiting or chasing.
A leopard is chasing us and do you ask me: ‘is it a male or female?'
A man does not run among thorns for no reason; either he is chasing a snake or a snake is chasing him.
Who is chasing after another must himself rest.
Regretting the past is like chasing after the wind.
The chasing away of a younger son from the house of his father is an abomination to Ninurta.
A judge who despises justice, cursing with the right hand, and the chasing away of a younger son from the house of his father are abominations to Ninurta.
We disregard what we've got, always chasing what we've not.
At an open chest the righteous sins.
Breasts are never too heavy for the chest.
When the treasure chest is open, even the just man sins.
Death has the key to open the miser's chest.
Guard your mouth as well as you guard your chest.
Spending your money with many a guest, empties the kitchen, the cellar and chest.
My chest locked, my soul safe.
Capacious as the sleeve of a monk and patient as the priest with his arms across his chest.
Where a chest lieth open, a righteous man may sin.
A man is obliged to beat his own chest when he has no drum.
From the soldier who has no cloak, keep your own in your chest.
The just man may sin with an open chest of gold before him.
A friend in the market is better than money in the chest.
The tears of a man drop onto his chest.
Pears, fill the chest; prunes, eat one.
The chest contains a beehive full of pride.
The righteous man sins before an open chest.
The cross in the chest, but the devil in the facts.
Has spring in the chest like the cat of Vähämartti.
One who waits for chance may wait a year.
Chance all; see what destiny yields.
Old love and wood will burn as soon as they get the chance.
A merchants happiness hangs upon chance, winds, and waves.
Never miss a good chance to shut up.
Chance favors the prepared mind.
A timid man has little chance.
He who finds what has not been lost, will chance to die before he is ill.
Virtue comes not from chance but long study.
He who waits for a chance may wait for a long time.
I cow dod did know how him troat hole ton him wouldn't chance pear seed.
A fool by chance may say a wise thing.
It's all fate and chance.
There is always a chance.
Whim rules the child, and weather the field, each is open to chance.
Look to your enemy for a chance to succeed.
A good man never stays in the grave forever, he always has chance to come back.
Romance/ without finance/ don't stand a chance.
Whom chance often passes by, it finds at last.
He who peeps at the neighbor's window may chance to lose his eyes.
When the cat and the mouse agree the farmer doesn't stand a chance.
The bigger the chance, the less the security.
A man is not honest simply because he never had a chance to steal.
Don't call a man honest just because he never had the chance to steal.
An enemy may chance to give good counsel.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance.
Too late to grieve when the chance is past.
Deliberation often loses a good chance.
A wise man turns chance into good fortune.
Some small spark may yet by chance lie hidden.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance,
When fools pipe, he may dance.
A fool may chance to put something into a wise man's head.
By chance a cripple may catch a hare.
Eggs are put to hatch on a chance.
It is dangerous to eat cherries with the great, they throw the stones at your head.
He who likes cherries soon learns to climb.
Don't give cherries to a pig; don't give advice to a fool.
Never give cherries to pigs or advice to fools.
Eat not cherries with the great.
To the satiated bird, cherries taste bitter.
Life is just a bowl of cherries.
He who eats cherries with gentlemen risks getting the pips in his nose.
They who eat cherries with the great, are like to have the stones and stalks flung in their face.
Disgraces are like cherries, one draws another.
Don't give cherries to pigs or advice to fools.
Those that eat cherries with great persons shall have their eyes squirted out with the stones.
Cherries are bitter to the glutted blackbird.
Don't give cherries to pigs or advice to fools.
When the cat and the mouse agree, the grocer is ruined.
Call a cat a cat.
A cat in her house has the teeth of a lion.
A cat goes to a monastery, but she still remains a cat.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
The cat knows who's meat it has eaten.
A cat may look at a king.
That smells bad, said the cat about meat that it cannot reach.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
When a mouse makes fun of a cat, there is a hole.
You come with a cat and call it a rabbit.
A trapped cat becomes a lion.
Because the cat was given no meat, he said it was Friday.
Everything troubles you and the cat breaks your heart.
A cat with gloves never catches mice.
Do not let the cat watch over the bacon.
It is not from the love of God that the cat catches mice.
The cat well knows whose beard she licks.
Where there are no tigers, a wild cat is very self-important.
When the mice laugh at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
Meat that the cat brings in never gets to your plate.
Without a cat mice have no restrictions.
The lap of its owner is security enough for a cat.
As long as the mouse keeps still you can be sure that the cat stays on guard.
An old cat will never learn to dance.
An old cat will not learn how to dance.
Never kill the cat that cries.
A cat will teach her young ones all the tricks, except how to jump backwards.
Never throw the cat at the dog.
While the mouse in the walls may look from afar at a cat, he does well not to go squeaking about it.
Can a mouse fall in love with a cat?
Giving gold coins to a cat.
It is difficult to catch a black cat in a dark room - especially if the cat isn't there.
The cat and the mouse can't be neighbors for long..
In the eyes of the mouse the cat is a lion.
A cat has nine lives; for three he plays, for three he strays, and for the last three he stays.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
Beware of the cat that licks from the front but claws from behind.
Curiosity killed the cat.
A cat is a lion to mouse.
It is too much to expect of a cat that she should sit by the milk and not lap it.
A cat has nine lives, as the onion seven skins.
Curiosity killed the cat.
The cat is always dignified, until the dog comes by.
It is to please herself that the cat purrs.
The cat has leave to look at the queen and the queen has leave to shoot it.
If the cat sits long enough at the hole, she will catch the mouse.
As honest as a cat when the meat is out of reach.
If a cat had a dowry, she would often be kissed.
It's for her own good that the cat purrs.
Nature breaks through the eyes of the cat.
When the cat is out the mouse can dance.
He that wills not to feed a cat feeds the mice.
Go slowly and come slowly so that the cat won't gore you.
When a cat wants to eat her kittens, she says they look like mice.
A cat that has been scalded is afraid of cold water.
The master orders the man, the man orders the cat, and the cat orders her tail.
The cat bit your tongue.
A house without a dog or a cat is the house of a scoundrel.
The cat is a good friend, only she scratches.
Even a cat is a lion in her own lair.
After eating nine hundred rats, the cat is now going on a pilgrimage.
The cat would eat fish, but would not wet her feet.
The cat which did not reach the sausage said: Anyhow it is Friday.
Who saves, saves for the cat.
To have eye one on the cat and another on the frying-pan.
A cat that licks the spit is not to be trusted with roast meat.
A muffled cat is no good mouser.
Better be the head of a cat than the tail of a lion.
How can the cat help it if the maid be a fool?
Never was a mewing cat a good mouser.
Thank you, pretty pussy, was the death of my cat.
That that comes of a cat will catch mice.
Politeness pleases even a cat.
A cat likes to eat fresh fish but it will not go into the water.
The man who takes legal action often loses an ox to win a cat.
In a house where two daughters live, the cat dies of thirst.
When a cat wants to eat her kittens, she says they look like mice.
If men were now to turn their hostility towards the cat, it would not be long before the domestic cat becomes a wild animal.
The cat and the rat never thought alike.
You don't buy a cat in a bag.
The rat knows full well that, if the cat is old and feeble, its claws are not.
It is better to feed one cat than many mice.
Mother sets aside and the cat eats.
A thin cat and a fat woman are the shame of a household.
The cat who snoops around will feed his kitten.
Who cuddles a cat, his farmyard will be blessed.
Who takes care of a cat will take care of a horse too.
Truth is like sugar cane; even if you chew it for a long time, it is still sweet.
Unless the broken tooth is thrown out the mouth will continue to chew with caution.
I can chew for you, my child, but you must swallow by yourself.
Dogs bark and cows chew grass.
The jaws have nothing to chew if the feet do not walk.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
Children's bread is hard to chew.
You can't chew with somebody else's teeth.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
Fear less, hope more, eat less, chew more, whine less, breathe more.
Out of a white egg often comes a black chick.
Don't have the appetite of Miss Julia who, when she had meat, wanted chick peas.
Bad egg, bad chick.
A lazy chick that exposes itself will be a delicious meal for the eagle.
To the raven her own chick is white.
A crow likes her own chick the best.
Where there's a senior the minor yields, said the chick in the cage.
The pigeon brings the makings and the chick makes the nest.
Hens feet don't spoil the chick.
Charity begins at hame.
I tried to do charity, I burned.
Charity is the spice of riches.
Charity well regulated begins at home.
Charity is the matter of the heart not of the pocket.
Charity bread has hard crusts.
Avarice hoards itself poor; charity gives itself rich.
Charity gives itself rich; covetousness hoards itself poor.
Charity sees the need not the cause.
He that feeds upon charity has a cold dinner and no supper.
Go to friends for advice, woman for love, strangers for charity and relatives for nothing.
There's nothing wrong with charity... As long as it winds up in your pocket.
May your charity increase as much as your wealth.
Charity is not a bone you throw to a dog, but a bone you share with a dog.
The doorway to charity is difficult to open and difficult to close.
Charity begins at home but should not end there.
Charity is not a bone you throw to your dog but a bone you share with your dog.
Charity is a virtue of the heart and not of the hand.
He that has no charity deserves no mercy.
Charity is a silent prayer.
People are slaves to charity/ good deeds.
Account by the dinar, give charity by the ass load.
Charity does not lessen you, going to church does not hinder you.
Charity supports both the giver and receiver.
Giving what one does not possess is always a sign of charity.
Where there is no love there is no charity.
Charity and pride have different aims, yet both feed the poor.
Charity covers a multitude of sins.
Charity excuseth not cheating.
If charity costs nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists.
Well-regulated charity begins with one's self.
Cold as charity. (14th century)
Charity begins at home but should not end there.
Charity is a virtue of the heart and not of the hand.
Charity is not a bone you throw to your dog but a bone you share with your dog.
There are four things to which you should not lend credence: love of women, the charity of friars, sun in the winter, and clouds in the summer.
Charity begins at home, but does not have to end there.
Rarely is a fight continued when the chief has fallen.
In hospitality, the chief thing is the good will.
You are a chief because of your people.
When one chief falls, another rises.
What the chief likes is not always what the youths like.
Women have no chief.
A good chief gives, he does not take.
If you do something wrong to me, I forgive you. But I know that someday God will make you hit the son of a chief on the head. Then the chief will punish you.
The land is a chief, and a person is its lowly servant.
A chief in the village never sees the devil.
A chief may have more wives than he can remember but you dare not try to share his wives with him.
The eyes that beheld the chief don't fear for a court official.
If you've never been to a pit latrine, you will never know that cockroach is a chief.
A chief should not create a new law when he is angry.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you are visiting a place where the chief sits on the floor.
Being happy in one's home is better than being a chief.
To be happy in one's home is better than to be a chief.
I ate honey in my childhood, and its sweetness is still in my tooth.
What one learns in childhood he carries into adulthood.
No one wants to remember his childhood.
In age, talk; in childhood, tears.
In childhood you are palyful, In youth you are lustful In old age you are feeble, So when will you before God be worshipful?
Childhood shows the man as morning shows the day.
Early childhood should be as happy and carefree as you can make it.
Childhood should be happy and carefree.
Childhood memories last long.
In childhood you are playful, in youth you are lustful in old age.
Childhood shows the man as morning shows the day.
The thief that is not caught is a king.
The eagle does not catch flies.
Laws catch flies but lets hornets go free.
If you chase two rabbits, you will not catch either one.
Use your enemy's hand to catch a snake.
You may well have caught a bird, but have you a fire to roast it on?
You can catch a cricket in your hand but its song is all over the field.
One can't give a grasshopper to a child if one has not caught it yet.
When the poor man sets a trap only his dog gets caught.
You can't catch skunks with mice.
To tell the dog to catch, and the rabbit to run.
Birds are caught with seed, men with money.
'tis not for everyone to catch a salmon.
A fox is not caught twice in the same snare.
Keep no more cats that will catch mice.
There is no hand to catch time.
It is little use to dig a well after the house has caught fire.
He who hunts two hares does not catch the one and lets the other escape.
A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return.
Although the snake does not fly it has caught the bird whose home is in the sky.
Today can't catch tomorrow.
Catch the bear before you sell his skin.
You will catch no birds with a club.
High trees catch lots of wind.
He is as easily caught as a hare with drums.
Cats don't catch the old birds.
A spoken word is not a sparrow. Once it flies out, you can't catch it.
A foolish fox is caught by one leg, but a wise one by all four.
The closed mouth doesn't catch any flies.
Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
You can't catch a louse with one finger.
Catch the halter rope and it will lead you to the donkey.
You can't catch two frogs with one hand.
The falcon does not struggle when he is caught.
The big fish is caught with big bait.
The one who is caught with the skin is the thief.
A thief is caught by his fellow thief.
A statement once let loose cannot be caught by four horses.
One who waits patiently will catch a big fish.
Even a superb hawk will not catch game unless it is loosed.
One strong man does not catch another strong man.
When fate throws a dagger at you, there are only two ways to catch it: by the blade or by the handle.
It is difficult to catch a black cat in a dark room - especially if the cat isn't there.
A new servant can catch a running deer.
Cats don't catch mice to please God.
The fox will catch you with cunning, and the wolf with courage.
If the dog hadn't stopped to rest, he'd have caught the rabbit.
It takes a thief to catch a thief.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
If you swear you will catch no fish.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
There is better fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
Make not the sauce till you have caught the fish.
Keep no more cats than catch mice.
A cast is not a catch.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
You must lose a fly, to catch a trout.
He who hunts with cats will catch mice.
He who hunts two hares from one bush, is not likely to catch either.
The cats that drive away mice are as food as those that catch them.
Everyone is glad to see a knave caught in his own trap.
Bear and bull catch no fox.
Old crows are hard to catch.
Proverbs are like butterflies; some are caught and some fly away.
Sue a beggar and catch a louse.
There are finer fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
If the cat sits long enough at the hole, she will catch the mouse.
A little dog can start a hare, but it takes a big one to catch it.
When the sky falls, we'll all catch larks.
If you cannot catch a fish, do not blame the sea.
A good thing is soon caught up.
The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught.
The rat which has but one hole is soon caught.
Meowing cats catch fewer mice.
It's easier to catch a liar than a limping person.
Catch the bird before you build a cage.
A drowning man would catch at razors.
A new net won't catch an old bird.
Even foxes are caught.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Sell not the bear's skin before you have caught him.
That that comes of a cat will catch mice.
It is not the thief who is hanged, but one who was caught stealing.
Catch not at the shadow, and lose the substance.
The thief who isn't caught is an honest salesman.
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.
A thief not caught becomes a king.
Hyenas are caught with stinking bait.
The cheap things prove to be expensive at the end.
Who buys cheap pays twice.
Both cheap and angry.
Good things are never cheap.
Not cheap without reason, nor dear without value.
A cheap thing doesn't lack defect, nor an expensive thing quality.
The cheap thing isn't without problem, the expensive without help.
Talk is cheap but it takes money to buy whiskey.
If fools were to eat no bread, corn would be cheap.
Friendships are cheap when they can be brought by doffing the hat.
The poor can't afford to buy cheap.
Bad merchandise is never cheap.
Bad ware is never cheap.
Cheap things cost a lot of money.
Free advice is seldom cheap.
Talking is cheap until you hire a lawyer to do it for you.
To guess is cheap, to guess wrong is expensive.
Liquor never hurt a cheap man.
If you buy cheap meat, you'll smell what you have saved when it boils.
If meat is expensive then patience is cheap.
If you buy cheap meat, when it boils you smell what you have saved.
He is never likely to have a good thing cheap that is afraid to ask a price.
Cheap meat yields dilute soup.
Seying goes good cheap.
Good chear, and good cheap, garres many haunt the House.
They buy good cheap that brings nothing hame.
Don't look for speed in a cheap horse; be content if it neighs.
If fools ate no bread, corn would be cheap.
Why buy a cow when milk is so cheap?
Lion-skins were never had cheap.
The wolf can always be hired very cheap as a shepherd.
That which is cheap is dear.
Do you want to buy cheap? Buy of a needy fool.
In the desert sand is cheap.
Why to live, when Lämsä buries cheap?
Why buy a cow when milk is so cheap?
To guess is cheap, to guess wrong is expensive.
Cheap things are not good, good things are not cheap.
Talk is cheap.
Buy cheap, sell dearǃ (Thomas Lodge)
Good goods, cheap goods.
Never keep a cou when ye can get milk cheap.
Cheap work will be expensive.
You cannot write in the chimney with charcoal.
When everybody's house is on fire go home and look at your own chimney.
I would rather see smoke from my own chimney than the fire on another's hearth.
May you have a bright future – as the chimney sweep said to his son.
We shall write it in soot in the chimney.
She who dances with the chimney sweeper will eventually end up black.
The promises of love and the smoke of a chimney, washed by water and blown away by the wind.
When a miller fights with a chimney sweep, the miller gets black and the chimney sweep gets white.
When violence comes into the house, law and justice leave through the chimney.
A sooty chimney costs many a beef-steak.
He who make more of you than he is wont, either means to cheat you or wants you.
He who makes more of you than usual either designs to cheat you or wants your assistance.
Never fight an enemy whilst it is possible to cheat him.
Cheat me in the price and not in the goods.
These can never be true friends: Hope, dice, a prostitute, a robber, a cheat, a goldsmith, a monkey, a doctor, a distiller.
The cheat always lies at the feet of the cheated.
He that will cheat at play, will cheat you any way.
He can cheat a fish of its skin.
Never cheat a klingon... Unless your sure you can get away with it.
The first time you cheat me, be ashamed. The second time it is I who must be ashamed.
Cheat me in the price, but not in the goods.
They are most cheated who cheat themselves.
He that would cheat a Jew, must be a Jew.
He who cheats a cheat and robs a thief, earns a dispensation for 100 years.
He would cheat the heron of her egg, though her two eyes were fixed on him.
He who would cheat a peasant, must take one with him.
When the devil says his paternosters he means to cheat you.
In marriage cheat who can.
Cheat me in the price and not in the goods.
Cheat me with the price, but not with the goods I buy.
He who would cheat the fox must rise early.
A blade won't cut another blade; a cheat won't cheat another cheat.
It is fair and just to cheat the cheater.
If everybody said bread and cheese, you put your head down and die.
When a dog has money, he buys cheese.
The cheese betrays the milk.
If ill luck were cheese, dairy-women would go wanting work.
Brotherly love for brotherly love, but cheese for money.
The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.
In baiting a mousetrap with cheese, always leave room for the mouse.
A candidate promises more cheese than bread.
Cultures are born and die, but the cheese is immortal.
Bread and cheese, neither beneficial nor bad.
Choose bread with eyes, cheese without eyes and wine that makes your eyes pop.
The cheese vessel will not sail merely by words.
Do not stuff your servant with bread, and he won't ask for cheese.
I don't want the cheese; I just want out of the trap.
It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese.
An apple-pie without some cheese is like a kiss without a squeeze.
The king's cheese goes half away in parings.
Cheese and money should always sleep together one night.
Cheese and bread make the cheeks red.
It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese.
The best fish hook cannot catch limp cheese.
Bread and cheese is gude to eat when folk can get nae ither meat.
I would as soon see your nose be cheese, and the cat get the first bite of it.
Cheese, pears and bread, is not the food of peasants.
For the very best, drink milk from the goat, ricotta from the sheep and cheese from the cow.
It's not polite to eat just the center of the cheese and just the crust of the bread.
To the fiancT -- milk; to the bride -- butter; to the husband -- cheese.
To the fianct - milk; to the bride - butter; to the husband - cheese.
zzzzOne person enjoys a piece of hard cheese, a second a spun out prayer chant, and a third a door to the street.
Eat bread that's light, and cheese by weight.
Cheese from the ewe, milk from the goat, butter from the cow.
Women, melons, and cheese are bought by the weight.
Pound the garlic, Pedro, whilst I grate the cheese.
I don't want the cheese, I just want to get out of the trap.
I don't want the cheese; I just want out of the trap.
Ye never saw green cheese but your e'en reei'd.
When buying a house, check the beams; when choosing a wife; check the mother.
One should be just as careful in choosing one's pleasures as in avoiding calamities.
One who spends too much time choosing ends up with cracked wares.
If you are choosing between bad company and loneliness, choose the second option.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
Long choosing and cheapening ends in buying nothing, or bad wares.
In choosing a friend, go up a step.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends.
A pretty face and fine clothes do not make character.
The wolf changes only his coat -- not his character.
Watch your character; it becomes your destiny.
A slave shows his true character, not while he is enslaved but when he becomes a master.
Ugliness with a good character is better than beauty.
If there is a character, ugliness becomes beauty; if there is none, beauty becomes ugliness.
Clothes cover up character.
A good character is real beauty that never fades.
If you damage the character of another, you damage your own..
The character of a man lies not in his body but in his soul.
Character can be built on daily routine.
If you damage the character of another, you damage your own.
Whenever man goes dwell his character goes with him.
Character is what you are in the dark.
If you take care of your character, your reputation will take care of itself.
Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark.
When wealth is lost, nothing is lost; when health is lost, something is lost; when character is lost, all is lost!
A man of character is resistant to temptation.
Hog run fe him life, darg run fe him character.
It' better fi lose yu timedan yu character.
Seeing a man is seeing his character.
Blood is inherited; character is earned.
One can easily judge the character of a person by the way they treat people who can do nothing for them.
If you want to know someone's character, look at the friends he keeps.
Distance tests a horse's strength; time reveals a marls character.
If there is beauty in character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
A person's character is like pregnancy it cannot be hidden.
Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest.
Character is what we are; reputation is what others think we are.
Man's only real possession is his character.
Ability will enable a man to get to the top, but character will keep him from falling.
Character is what you are in the dark when no one else is around.
A man's studies pass into his character.
Character is easier kept than recovered.
A person's character reaches town before the person does.
People show their character by what they laugh at.
A rich man has no need of character.
A people's legends reveal its character more clearly than its acts and events.
When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends.
Words may either conceal character or reveal it.
Each man's character shapes his fortunes.
If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in character.
A cautious man will observe the indications of character which nature reveals in others.
Riches have disclosed in thy character the bad qualities formerly hhidden by thy poverty.
Character is a diamond that scratches every other stone.
If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in the character. If there is beauty in the character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
Character is like pregnancy. It cannot be hidden forever.
Ugliness with a good character is better than beauty.
Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark.
Character is what you are in the dark when no one else is around.
New king, new character.
Don't look at the shape -- look at the character.
When you chop off a snake's head all you are left with is a piece of rope.
Chop wood, carry water.
Does the left hand chop off the right?
Chop, and you will have splinters.
Shavings fly where wood is being chopped.
You must chop down the tree that gives too much or too little shade.
When wood is chopped, woodchips will fly.
Heaps of good cotton stocks get chopped up from association with the weeds.
Ears that do not listen to advice, accompany the head when it is chopped off.
Kiss the hand of your enemy if you cannot chop it off: envy has no rest.
If you want to kill a snake, chop off its head.
Before enlightenment chop wood, carry water. After enlightenment chop wood, carry water.
Hmmm ... we chop down trees and chop up wood.
[You could] even chop sticks on (his) head.
He who is a friend of Christ, will soon find salvation.
When christ disappears, light goes out.
Whether bad or good, christ doesn't say why it happens.
Christ doesn't pay every friday evening.
Christ is powerful, but more powerful is destiny.
If Jesus Christ comes to help me, I laugh at the angels.
"love one another” said christ, but he didn't mention anything about preferences.
What Christ does not take the exchequer takes.
When Christ was along, the devil tempted him.
Christmas comes, but once a year is enough.
It is good to be priest at Easter, child in Lent, peasant at Christmas, and foal in harvest-time.
Christmas comes but once a year.
Black christmas, white easter.
If it weren't for sorrow and bad times, every day would be christmas.
A christmas of games, an easter by the fire.
Spend Easter and Christmas with whomever you want, but celebrate Mardi Gras with your own.
Rather a man without a cow for the summer than without a wife for christmas night.
Christmas has been talked of so long that it has come at last.
Christmas in mud, Easter in snow.
Christmas on the balcony, easter by the fire.
The best of all worlds: A sunny Christmas and a log fire on Easter.
A white Christmas fills the churchyard.
The devil makes his Christmas pies of lawyers' tongues and clerk's fingers.
So much does one shout "Christmas" that at last it comes!
A Christmas wish - may you never forget what is worth remembering, or remember what is best forgotten.
Herrings are quite small to be served at Christmas dinner.
A christian forgives, an idiot forgets.
The better lawyer, the worse Christian.
The Jew ruins himself with passovers, the Moor with wedding feasts, and the Christian with lawsuits.
Fresh port and new wine, send a Christian to the churchyard.
It costs something to be a Christian, but it costs more to be a sinner.
The thief who can't steal anymore has become a Christian.
Get a Christian doctor and a pagan lawyer.
A Christian is more of a scoundrel than a rascal of a non-believer.
He who is a Basque, a good Christian and has two mules, needs nothing more.
Fresh port and new wine, send a Christian to the churchyard.
A piece of churchyard fits everybody.
A young physician fattens the churchyard.
A piece of churchyard fits everybody.
A green Christmas makes a fat churchyard.
A green Yule makes a fat churchyard.
New doctor, new churchyard.
The beadle's cow may graze in the churchyard.
A white Christmas fills the churchyard.
A young doctor brings a green churchyard.
You can't claim heaven as your own if you are just going to sit under it.
If he hasn't seen her/his father, he would claim to be a king.
First prove your brotherhood, then claim inheritance.
Who serves well and says nothing makes claim enough.
Repay evil with good, and hell will not claim you.
A pregnant woman cannot claim to be a virgin.
To claim is not to prove.
All claim kindred with the prosperous.
If two men claim your help, and one is your enemy, help him first.
After all I have no nationality and am not anxious to claim any.
Claim to virginity, after seven moppets!
No one can claim they'll be here tomorrow.
A wise man adapts himself to circumstances as water shapes itself according to the vessel that contains it.
Open your eyes and your ears when contracting, because the agreed upon circumstances mean a lot.
The wise adapt themselves to circumstances, as water moulds itself to the pitcher.
People are like chameleons; circumstances make them change their colour.
Be not discouraged by adverse circumstances.
Commerce flourishes by circumstances precarious.
Circumstances alter cases.
To circumstances and custom the law must yield.
Straitened circumstances.
Be not discouraged by adverse circumstances.
A goose quill is more dangerous than a lion's claw.
When crab walk too much him lose him claw.
A girl without a needle is like a cat without a claw.
Claw me, and I will claw thee.
If you want to eat pipius claw, you'll have to break a few pipiuses.
Claw me and I'll claw thee.
I'll gar ye claw where its no yeuky.
Claw me and I'll claw thee.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
When a lion cannot find the flesh to feed on, it has no choice but to eat the grass.
There is small choice in rotten apples.
He who fain would marry, in choice should not tarry.
When you have no choice, mobilize the spirit of courage.
He who has a choice has trouble.
Small choice in rotten apples.
A slave has no choice.
No choice is ever wholly unregretted, each brings more joy and more sorrow than we can foresee.
He who has the choice has the pain.
Choose your love, then love your choice.
The obvious choice is usually a quick regret.
Bad is the best choice.
A man has a choice to begin love, but not to end it.
Choose thy love. Love thy choice.
He who is sitting in the reeds, makes a whistle of his choice.
The spirit that keeps one going when one has no choice of what else to do must not be mistaken for valor.
Put your hand into the creel, and take your choice of flounders.
The choice oil is from the surface, the best wine is from the middle, and the best honey is from the bottom.
No choice is also a choice.
Don't be scared when you have no other choice.
The first in the boat has the choice of oars.
You pays your money and you takes your choice.
Meat has no choice morsel.
No choice is ever wholly unregretted, each brings more joy.
A slave has no choice.
A burden of one's own choice is not felt.
If there's no choice but advice, ask for the decisiveness of an advisor or the advice of a decisive person.
Don't be scared when you have no other choice.
Small choice in rotten apples.
A clay pot of water is never hot-tempered.
We are all made of the same clay, but not from the same mold.
Gold like the sun melts wax and hardens clay.
If you have no teeth, do not break the clay cooking pot.
Work the clay while it is still wet.
Clay and lime conceal much evil.
A pot trader whose fortunes are all invested in her clay pots isn't much of a merchant.
The same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay.
He fights with horns made of clay.
The potter sleeps soundly, for no one would steal clay.
They prevent us from getting red clay from the pit, and they do not use it.
The same heat that melts wax, bakes clay.
If you have no teeth, do not break the clay cooking pot.
If you have no teeth, do not break to clay cooking pot.
Candlemas day, put beans in the clay; put candles and candlesticks away.
Don't change horses in midstream.
All things change and we with them.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
Woman, wind, and luck soon change.
Change yourself, and fortune will change with you.
Change yourself; change your fortunes.
To change the world we must first change ourselves.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?
Do not change horses in the middle of the river.
The chameleon changes color to match the earth, the earth doesn't change color to match the chameleon.
If we don't change our direction we're likely to end up where we're headed.
The day your horse dies and your money's gone, your relatives change into strangers.
Though change be no robbery.
He who is not happy with the position of the sun should climb and change it.
If you are building something and a nail breaks, should you stop building altogether, or should you change the nail?
Don't change horses while crossing a stream.
If you are always dwelling in trouble, change your address.
The only sure thing about luck is that it's sure to change.
A leopard cannot change its spots.
Lawyers and painters can soon change white to black.
I will not change a cottage in possession for a kingdom in reversion.
Many a sudden change takes place on a spring day.
Change yourself, and your luck will change.
To change one's habits has a smell of death.
Blaming your faults on your nature does not change the nature of your faults.
Wise men change their minds, fools never.
Time and patience change the mulberry leaf to satin.
Only fools are glad when governments change.
If someone sweats for you, you change his shirt.
Easy to change young wood shape than the old one.
The leopard does not change his spots.
A change of event such as the death of a leader, will lead to other changes.
Better suffer a known evil than change for uncertain good.
There is no death, only a change of worlds.
What is impossible to change is best to forget.
It can be impossible to change an established image.
It doesn't take time to change one's destiny.
When the music changes, then the rhythm of the dance must change also.
A person will change his mind on something if left to sleep over it.
A man's shirt does not change the color of his skin.
A good client doesn't change shop in three years, a good shop doesn't change clients in three years.
All things change, and we change with them.
Unles we change direction, we are likely to wind up where we are headed.
Rivers and mountains may change; human nature, never.
It takes a season for a snake to change into its new skin.
No matter how long a stick may stay in a river, it will never change into fish.
A chameleon can only change its colour but never change its skin.
People are like chameleons; circumstances make them change their colour.
If you dance with the devil you can't change him but he will change.
Change of fortune hurts a wise man no more that a change of the moon.
In this world, nothing is permanent except change.
Times change and we with them.
A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
April weather, woman's love, rose-leaves, dice, and card-luck, change every moment.
To change and to do better are two different things.
People often change and seldom for the better.
Don't change horses in midstream.
To change and to improve are two different things.
To change and to change for the better are two different things.
Honours change manners.
A leopard cannot change his spots.
A woman and the wind change every moment.
The less things change, the more they remain the same.
The leopard cannot change its spots.
Change seeds taking them from different calabashes.
Honours change manners.
Honours change manners.
Popularity is the small change of glory.
A broke merchant counted his small change.
A change is as good as a rest.
You must tolerate that which you cannot change.
Women, wind, and fortune, soon change.
To change one's mind is rather a sign of prudence than ignorance.
A leopard cannot change his spots.
It is no advantage for a man in fever to change his bed.
Change yourself and fortune will change.
A bird does not change its feathers because the weather is bad.
Poor people can change and succeed.
A fool may be known by six things anger, without cause speech, without profit change, without progress inquiry, without object putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
We are changed as we change our environment.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?
One decade is long enough to change the looks of mountains and rivers.
Do not change horses in the middle of the river.
A leopard cannot change its spots.
Times change.
Only three things in life are certain birth, death and change.
We can't change the direction of the wind, but we can adjust the sails.
Honours change manners.
Even the most expensive clock still shows sixty minutes in every hour.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.
A happy man does not hear the clock strike.
Even a clock that is not going is right twice a day.
Even a clock that does not work is right twice a day.
Every dog got dem diay, every puss dem 4 o' clock.
Even the clock shows the time without knowing anything.
The clock ticks nowhere else the way it does at home.
Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.
How you run your life, that's how your clock will run.
No clock is more regular than the belly.
The costliest clock can show only sixty minutes in every hour.
He has heard the clock ring, but can't find the lever.
A clock that stands still is better than one that goes wrong.
A clock that stands still is better than one that goes wrong.
The skin fits closer than the shirt.
Closer than the closeness of the teeth to the tongue.
Closer than the carotid artery.
The knee is closer than the calf.
Come a little closer when your sword is too short.
The closer a relation, the more it hits home.
My shirt is closer to me than my cloak.
[One's] own shirt [is] closer to the body.
Further from the eye – closer to the heart.
Visit infrequently, and you will get closer.
You cannot shear the sheep closer than the skin.
The beginning and end of one's life is to draw closer to the fire.
Death is closer than the shirt.
Praise gets closer than blame.
Though near be the stone to the ground, closer is the help of coivi.
Few people rise to our esteem upon closer scrutiny.
Close sits my shirt, but closer my skin.
Own mouth is closer than the mouth of your backpack.
Mint flower: the more you say "go away", the closer it comes.
If you enter the city of the blind, cover your eyes.
You can close the city gates but not the mouths of men.
Limerick was, Dublin is, and Cork shall be the finest city of the three.
You can close the city gates, but you can't close the people's mouths.
Good and bad make up a city.
If each person would sweep before his own house, the city would soon be clean.
If every man would sweep before his own door, the city would soon be clean.
A shy woman is worth a city, a shy man is worth a goat.
When in the city of the pretenders. Be pretending.
Monreale, a city without comfort, either it rains, or the wind blows, or bells ring for the dead.
Better a patient man than a warrior, one who controls his temper than one who takes a city.
Do not dwell in a city whose governor is a physician.
When you are poor, you will have no visitors even if you live in a crowded city; once you become rich, you'll be surprised by visitors from alleged relatives even if you live in a remote location.
The disgrace of the city is the fault of the citizens.
Do not dwell in a city where a horse does not neigh nor a dog bark.
The city, whose physician has the gout, is in a bad state.
You can't fight City Hall.
The city that negotiates is half conquered.
Things may be traded in the city but it is the fisherman who brings in the food supply.
Where there is no grain, this is a sign of vengeance turned towards a city. Where there are no reeds, it is the worst of all poverty.
When liars enter by the city gate, in front of them there is a finger pointing at them, behind them there is a finger pointing at them.
Another city (town) - another temper.
When you're in a strange city, adopt its manners.
That my friend should be well is our wish, and that our enemies should be gone! May those friendly to you reach their goal as a ship does a friendly harbour! May your enemy, like the flood waters of a river, return to his city.
No one is a prophet in one's own homeland/home city.
A person changing his clothing always hides while changing.
That which eats you up is in your clothing.
Kyoto people ruin themselves for clothing. osaka people for food.
There's no shame in clothing you haven't cut yourself.
When God gives a child, he also gives the clothing.
A wolf in sheep's clothing.
There is no such thing as bad weather, only bad clothing.
Wolves are often hidden under sheep's clothing.
There is no bad weather only bad clothing.
Wolf in sheep's clothing.
Needle and thread are half clothing.
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
Two lightning flashes cannot come from one cloud.
You can't bind a cloud even with copper chains.
A promise is a cloud; fulfillment is rain.
Not every cloud brings rain.
From a big cloud comes little rain.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Many a cloud has a silver lining.
A learned man without work is a cloud without rain.
The sun won't stay behind the cloud.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Many stars cannot be concealed by a small cloud.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
It is only the eagle that can give an account of the whisper of the cloud.
A small cloud can hide the sun and the moon.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
A doctor and a clown know more than a doctor alone.
Give a clown your finger he'll grasp your fist.
He gapes like a clown at a fair.
Offer a clown your finger, and he'll take your fist.
Give a clown your foot, and he'll take your hand.
Crowning a clown won't make him a king.
Every clown can find fault, though it would puzzle him to do better.
Give a clown your finger, and he will take your hand.
No fine clothes can hide the clown.
A clown enriched knows neither relation nor friend.
The more you court a clown the statelier he grows.
A wild dog is best eaten when clubbed to death.
From the same wood you can make a cross or a club.
With a friendly word you get farther than with a club.
Don't raise your club so high; it will only fall on your head.
The one chased away with a club comes back, but the one chased away with reason does not.
Truth is the club that knocks down and kills everybody.
A club drenched in blood easily finds its mark.
Those who make friendship with a club shouldn't expect a good handshake.
The crutch of time does more than the club of Hercules.
You can get farther with a friendly word than with a club.
People who have not secret agreement are beaten by a single club.
The place to use the club and the above arrow are not the same.
The watched chicken never lays.
Do not eat your chicken and throw its feathers in the front yard.
A chicken that hatches a crocodile's eggs is looking for trouble.
The neighbor's chicken is a duck.
The chicken that stays in the farmyard, will peck the crumbs.
Where there is a rooster the chicken will not crow.
A sleeping fox counts chicken in his dreams.
A blind chicken will often find an ear of corn.
Bone in chicken, relatives in man.
Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest.
You eat an egg, but you don't understand how painful it was for the chicken.
He who spends a night with a chicken will cackle in the morning.
The egg teaches the chicken how to breed.
The most stupid chicken always challenges the wildcat.
If you are going to have a roast, a chicken is better than a phoenix.
The Chicken teaches the hen to lay eggs.
The fox that waits until the chicken falls from the perch dies from hunger.
My chicken is good, but my neighbor's looks better.
He who pursues an innocent chicken always stumbles.
Confusion is a chicken with shattered eyes.
A chicken gets a gem.
A chicken sees the snake's foot and a snake sees the chicken's breast.
The chicken that crows the loudest does not always give the biggest eggs.
As chicken is not a bird, woman is not a human being.
It makes chicken laugh.
The vulture embraced the chicken until its last breath.
Vixen resolved not to steal chicken.
Don't refuse a wing to the one who gave you the chicken.
When they fooled the chicken they threw her into a carrying basket.
To win a dispute is to gain a chicken and lose a cow.
When the hen steps on the feet of her chicken, she does not mean to kill them.
Don't count your chicken before they hatch.
You can't blame the axe for the noise made by the chicken you are about to slaughter.
You cannot cook one half of the chicken and leave the other lay eggs.
The bush fowl saw the chicken being carved up and laughed. The chicken told the bush fowl to stop laughing. For the same hands now carving up the chicken would be used to carve up the bush fowl.
If my belly is of glass, I will fill it with bread and chicken; if it is a closed cellar, I will fill it with cockroaches.
When you eat an egg do not insult the chicken.
The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry.
Never mistake chicken shit for an egg.
It is better to be the head of a chicken than the rear of an ox.
Kill the chicken to frighten the monkey.
Better to be the beak of a chicken than the rump of an ox.
Kill a chicken before a monkey.
It is easier to get a chicken back in the egg than to undo a slander.
If you are married to a chicken obey the chicken. If you are married to a dog obey the dog.
A good dog does not bite a chicken and a good man does not hit his wife.
An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow.
Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest.
If you're to cure a chicken you do so while it is still kicking.
A chicken with beautiful plumage does not sit in a corner.
No chicken will fall into the fire a second time.
The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry.
He who eats an egg foregoes a future meal of chicken soup.
The fox which was caught in a snare called: If I shall not get the whole chicken, I will not be satisfied with the drumstick.
When a poor man eats a chicken, one or the other is sick.
Even the blind chicken finds grains.
A sleeping fox catches no hare, chicken.
Do not count your chicken before they are hatched.
Chicken are beautiful because of their feathers, women are beautiful because of their make-up.
A chicken who isn't pecking has already eaten.
Better an egg today than the chicken tomorrow.
Don't let the chicken into the hen house in January.
A skinny pig is better than a fat chicken.
The young cock said to the young chicken: the whole world is like our home.
An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow.
When a poor man eats a chicken, one or the other is sick.
Who is born a chicken loves scratching.
You don't have to kill the chicken to get eggs.
A chicken won't be grudged to a place a goose will come from.
In our eyes the neighbor's chicken is a goose.
When the fox is engaging you in conversation, keep an eye on your chicken.
When arguing with a chicken a grain of corn is always wrong.
If the cockroach wants to rule over the chicken, then it must hire the fox as a body-guard.
The chicken also knows when it's morning, but still watches the mouth of the cock.
The chicken also knows when it's morning, but still watches cock.
The preacher must be like a chicken who always has an egg in reserve.
The fried dove/pigeon (or chicken) will not fly into your mouth.
From the woods a beautiful pheasant, from the sea a beautiful moray eel, from the river a den eel, from the cage a beautiful chicken.
Like hen, like chicken.
Children have wide ears and long tongues.
Whoever has no children has no light in his eyes.
A house without children is a graveyard.
Children will tell you what they do, men what they think and older people what they have seen and heard.
Children have a hair of their father.
Children are the reward of life.
She who keeps losing children doesn't invent names anymore.
Rather than an abatement of her viciousness, a witch gives birth to only female children and witchcraft multiplies .
One father can feed seven children, but seven children cannot feed one father.
A father maintains ten children better than ten children one father.
Children pick up words, as pigeons peas, and utter them again as God shall please.
Children raised, doubled work.
Children should be seen and not heard.
Children: one is one, two is fun, three is a houseful.
Children tell in the highway what they hear by the fireside.
Most adults are attentive to what someone is doing, but children see beyond that.
Even children of the same mother look different.
Children speak in the field what they hear in the house.
It's better to have lots of children than to have lots of material goods.
Hold your children with your heart but teach them with your hands.
A bad mother wishes for good children.
It is the duty of children to wait on elders, and not the elders on children.
The man to whom God gives no children, the devil gives nieces and nephews.
Bad children? guilty parents.
More precious than our children are the children of our children.
Whoever is ashamed to sleep with his wife will never have children.
Other people's children cause your nostrils to flare.
If a man leaves little children behind him, it is as if he did not die.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets along the way.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
We desire to bequest two things to our children–the first one is roots; the other one is wings.
Children yoke parents to the past, present and future.
Never trust a woman, even if she has borne you seven children.
There are old men of three years old and children of a hundred.
Children grow up, with or without parents.
The old should be treated with due respect. Children should be treated with gentleness.
If thine enemy wrong thee, buy each of his children a drum.
Our wishes are like little children - the more you indulge the more they want from you.
We do not inherit the land from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children.
When children stand quiet, they have done some ill.
A man among children will long be a child; a child among men will soon be a man.
Children are buttonholes that hold their parents together.
Children and drunken men speak the truth.
The shoemakers children go barefoot.
Our neighbor's children are always the worst.
Many children and little bread is a painful pleasure.
Thirteen nuns, fourteen children!
Bricks and mortar make a house, but the laughter of children make a home.
A rainy day is not a day for children.
Don't tell secrets to the children of your relatives.
A Joke may have children born.
Old men are twice children.
It is too late for you, let God give your children some intelligence.
Raised children, doubled work.
Children married, cares increased.
He that marries a widow with four children marries four thieves.
We are all Adam's children.
A priest is a man who is called Father by everyone except his own children who are obliged to call him Uncle.
Who has no children does not know what love is.
Beloved children have many names.
Even if gypsy children are dropped from the sky.
The blessing of having many children has never broken a man's roof.
A person who has children does not die.
Children of the same mother do not always agree.
It is an irresponsible adult that creates enmity because of a disagreement that arises between two children.
When a woman has ten children, there is nothing that happens in the night that she does not know about.
Old proverbs are the children of truth.
Don't let children or pups get accustomed to your soup bowl.
Those who sleep with children wake up with shit on their asses.
Little children, little problems; big children, big problems.
A crazy father and mother make sensible children.
Who weds a widow with three children takes four thieves into his house.
Our good life sure is there for us, unless we learned some bad conduct in our home as children.
Trapani, red coral, Monte San Giuliano, beautiful children.
In Polizzi you'll find water, fog, kites, priests with children, commissions and delegates.
Of listening children have your fears, for little pitchers have great ears.
Children and fools have merry lives.
Children and fools are prophets.
Children are what they are made.
The fathers ate the cranberries and the children are left with the aftertaste.
Give your children too much freedom and you lose your own.
Children and fools tell the truth.
Debts are like children: the smaller they are the more noise they make.
A greedy father has thieves for children.
Treat thoughts as guests and wishes as children.
We have not inherited the earth from our ancestors, we have only borrowed it from our children.
Treat the earth well. It was not given to you by your parents. It is loaned to you by your children.
We have not inherited this land from our ancestors; rather we have borrowed it from our children.
Choose a friend with the eyes of an old man, and a horse with the eyes of a young one.
There are only two things from which to choose: profit or loss.
Choose a wife to please yourself, not others.
Nice words are free, so choose ones that please another's ears.
Choose a matchmaker, not a bride.
If you want to eat pig, choose one which is fat.
If you turn into a dog, be sure to choose a rich family.
A slave does not choose his master.
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
Who does not choose dies of hunger.
Choose your neighbor before your house and your companion before the road.
Prudent men choose frugal wives.
Choose your company before you go drinking.
It's difficult to choose between two blind goats.
Do not choose for anyone what you do not choose for yourself.
As you would have a daughter so choose a wife.
He who eats pears with his master should not choose the best.
Choose neither a woman nor linen by candlelight.
Choose your woman with a velvet glove, but control her with a fist of iron.
Do not choose your wife at a dance, but in the field among the harvesters.
In a restaurant choose a table near a waiter.
We can not choose who our relatives should be, even though we may come to like some better than others.
Choose your fellow traveller before you start on your journey.
When your own funeral is approaching, you don't pick and choose your grave diggers.
Do not choose your wife on your way to the church.
Choose bread with eyes, cheese without eyes and wine that makes your eyes pop.
Choose old wine and new oil.
Choose an old doctor and a new pharmacist.
If you are choosing between bad company and loneliness, choose the second option.
Choose the stone by the size of the frog.
Choose your wife as you wish your children to be.
When you need to make an important decision, never do it alone, choose the right people.
Do not choose your wife at a dance, but in the field among the harvesters.
Choose the neighbor before the house.
Everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength.
Life is partly what we make it, and partly what it is made by the friends whom we choose.
Choose your lodging before dark and leave before the morning dew.
Choose your inn before dark, get back on the road before dawn.
When your house is on fire you don't choose who to help you put out the fire.
If you choose to lie down with dogs, you must be prepared to wake up with fleas.
No matter how high the vulture may choose to soar, the eagle will remain king of the sky.
You may choose your friends; your family is thrust upon you.
Choose you friends like your books: few but choice.
Let him that pays the reckoning choose the lodging.
Of two evils choose the least.
Between evil tongues and evil ears, there is nothing to choose.
Choose thy love. Love thy choice.
There's little to choose between two blind goats.
Of evils, choose the least.
If you lose one, there are a thousand more to choose from.
One should choose one's bedfellow whilst it is daylight.
Choose your bedfellows by day.
Choose your wife with her nightcap on.
Choose your neighbors before you buy your house.
Choose him for a friend who incites you to good works.
Choose her for her beauty and even choose her without a dowry because from her beauty you'll get pleasure.
No one will choose you if they're not like you.
You don't choose whom to love and not love.
A woman and a melon are hard to choose.
Choose a wife with your ears, not your eyes.
Pick and choose, and take the worst.
One should choose a wife with the ears, rather than with the eyes.
He that would have a beautiful wife should choose her on a Saturday.
He who has both money and bread, may choose with whom his daughter to wed.
Two cannot fall out if one does not choose.
Choose a wife from among your equals.
Girl, your brother cannot choose for you; whom do you choose?
Girl, your brother is like me. A brother should let you live as would I.
If the price is the same, choose the people usually the good instead of the bad, unless it's a product of spirit.
Choose an easy death for one who must be executed.
One is in a dilemma to choose between two conditions by weighing the merits and demerits.
Choose your woman with a velvet glove, but control her with a fist of iron.
Never choose your women or linen by candlelight.
Choose the neighbor before the house.
Choose your company before you sit down [e.g., to drink together].
A wife and a nag, choose them from your neighborhood.
To love is to choose.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A mother understands what a child does not say.
A man without a child is a king without sorrows.
The grown-up pays attention to what you are doing; the child sees beyond that.
One can't give a grasshopper to a child if one has not caught it yet.
The child of a rat is a rat.
Too large a morsel chokes the child.
Do not make the dress before the child is born.
Don't tell any more fairy tales when the child has gone to sleep.
What the child sees, the child does. What the child does, the child is.
A child is a bridge to heaven.
the child and the little bird, God catches the fall.
Boil not the pap before the child is born.
A child without education is like a bird without wings.
No child was ever born without having been conceived.
When the tree falls, any child can climb it.
The child you sired hasn't sired you.
A child is like an axe; even if it hurts, you still carry them on your shoulders.
If you want the truth, ask a child.
If the child does not cry, the mother knows not its wants.
Never give a child a sword.
When you take a knife away from a child, give him a piece of wood instead.
He who longs too much for a child will marry a pregnant woman.
The child who loves freedom is the first victim of it.
The motherless child will suckle the grandmother.
The child who is given everything he asks for usually won't succeed in life.
A child without a mother is like a fish in shallow water.
A goose's child is a swimmer.
When my child and I have eaten -- then clear the table.
Don't give a child a name until after it is born.
The elephant's head is no load for a child.
It is easier to beat two devils into a child, than one devil out.
Better the child weeps than your wife.
By crawling, a child learns to stand.
The hand of the child cannot reach the shelf, nor the hand of the adult get through the neck of the gourd.
When your neighbor's horse falls into a pit, you should not rejoice at it, for your own child may fall into it too.
When you show the moon to a child, it sees only your finger.
You can not tell a hungry child that you gave him food yesterday.
Patience is the mother of a beautiful child.
A child one does not instruct on return, one instructs him when going.
A por man with his child a rich man with his wealth.
A single hand can not nurse a child.
When a child cries for a razor give it him.
To every child his own neck ornament.
The child of a snake is a snake.
He who fears the crying of a child, will cry himself.
An obstinete child does not suffer save on the day of festival.
The child who grows up with you is your fellow.
It is not hard to nurse a pregnency, but it is hard to bring up a child.
The child who died too soon was always beautiful and intelligent.
A child who is to be successful is not reared exclusively on a bed of down.
Little palm tree, stop crying, you child is the tall palm tree.
A child does not laugh at the ugliness of his mother.
Ask the truth from a child.
A porcupine speaking to its baby says, "o my child of velvet.”.
No matter how big a child is, he cannot deny that he was once carried on the back of a woman.
It takes a village to raise a child.
When a blind man is happy he gives money to his child to buy kerosene for his lamp.
If a child washes his hands he could eat with kings.
The antics of a market buffoon provide laughter, but nobody prays that his child becomes the market buffoon.
If a mother steals with a child stripped in the back what do you expect of the child.
No matter how bad a child is, he is still good for a tax deduction.
With one child you may walk; with two you may ride; when you have three, at home you must bide.
A proverb is the child of experience.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
A man among children will long be a child; a child among men will soon be a man.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
It is good to be priest at Easter, child in Lent, peasant at Christmas, and foal in harvest-time.
One kisses the child for the mother's sake, and the mother for the child's sake.
Who takes the child by the hand takes the mother by the heart.
Twenty years a child; twenty years running wild; twenty years a mature man -- and after that, praying.
Neither promise wax to the saint, nor cakes to the child.
Fish's child knows how to swim.
I can chew for you, my child, but you must swallow by yourself.
Even the mother cannot understand the words of a dumb child.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
One beats one's breast who does not beat one's child.
A man that begets a barren cannot have a grand child.
If a child shoots an arrow that reaches the top of a tall palm tree, then it must be that an elderly person carved the arrow for him.
It is the woman whose child has been eaten by a witch who best knows the evils of witchcraft.
A child does not die because the mother's breasts are dry.
Everybody joins to blame or condemn a child who overthrows the pot of soup.
A child is what you put into him.
A child who fears beating, would never admit that he played with a missing knife.
The Child of an elephant will not be a dwarf.
To love a cow, tie it up; To love a child, hit him/her.
Milk for a child, meat for a man, beer for the old.
The child will grow, his clothes will not.
Religion is the best armor in the world, but the worst cloak.
Truth's cloak is often lined with lies.
A well-formed figure needs no cloak.
Who makes the wolf his companion should carry a dog under his cloak.
A cloak is not made for a single shower of rain.
My shirt is closer to me than my cloak.
My shirt is nearer than my cloak.
If the weather is fine, put on you cloak; if it rains, do as you please.
God will listen to you whatever cloak you wear.
He who stands godfather to a wolf should have a dog under his cloak.
Beard and cloak do not make one a philosopher.
From the soldier who has no cloak, keep your own in your chest.
Although the sun shines, leave not your cloak at home.
His cloak was put out.
Arrange your cloak as the wind blows.
Of little cloth but a short cloak.
Vice hides under a cloak of virtue.
Where you lost your cloak, seek it.
Though the sun shines, leave not your cloak at home.
There's no making a good cloak of bad cloth.
The well-fed sheep makes a cloak of its tail.
From a praying young man, and a fasting old man, God preserve my cloak.
Under my cloak I kill the king.
Under a bad cloak there is a good tippler.
There are all honest men, but my cloak is not to be found.
Under a good cloak may be a bad man.
A royal heart is often hid under a tattered cloak.
The fire heeds little whose cloak it burns.
He has coosten his cloak on the ither shouther.
Fie upon a cloak in fair weather.
However bright the sun may shine, leave not your cloak at home.
In church, in the taverns, and in coffins all men are equal.
The good won't be spoiled in an inn, so the bad won't be mended in a church.
Who is forced to go to church will not pray.
The church is near, but the way is icy. The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully.
He who is near the church is often far from God.
The sound of a church bell at times has more effect than a sermon.
Where god builds a church, the devil will build a chapel.
When the goat goes to church, he does not stop till he gets to the altar.
Poor is the church without music.
Too much wax burns the church.
A church without a leader is prey for the devil.
More unlucky than dogs in church.
A cask of wine works more miracles than a church full of saints.
He is a good dog who goes to church.
A great church and little devotion.
When there is nothing the church loses.
No church without a sermon.
Many bring their clothes to church rather than themselves.
The church is nearby, God is far away.
Do not choose your wife on your way to the church.
Who goes to church without his axe is a shitty man.
No matter how long the procession, it still ends up in church.
A church stone drops gold.
He that has the luck leads the bride to church.
Like priest, like church.
The church is near but the road is icy; the bar is far away but I'll walk carefully.
Where God has his church the Devil will have his chapel.
Good resolutions are like babies crying in church, they should be carried out immediately.
What the church doesn't take, the exchequer carries away.
A good example is like a bell that calls many to church.
Better come late to church than never.
"o what we must suffer for the sake of God's church!” said the abbot, when the roast fowl burned his fingers.
Where God builds a church, the devil builds a chapel.
Let the devil get into the church, and he will mount the altar.
In the visible church the true Christians are invisible.
He who lives by the church shall serve the church.
The nearer the church the farther from God.
What is not taken by the Church is taken by the Exchequer.
All are not saints that go to church.
The nearer the church, the further from god.
Near the church far from God.
Many scruple to spit in church, and afterwards defile the altar.
All are not saints who go to church.
Charity does not lessen you, going to church does not hinder you.
In a large church no priest dies.
As poor as a church mouse.
The Church never gives anything away.
Two are holy: a church and a sauna.
All are not saints that go to church.
What the child hears at the fireside is soon known at the parish church.
He is a good dog who goes to church.
The church, the sea, or the royal household, for whoever would thrive.
He who would thrive must follow the church, the sea, or the king's service.
Where God has a church the devil will have his chapel.
I want to thank you in an empty church and dry saloon.
Every church has its own poors.
Not all who go to church go there to pray.
Wherever God buys a church, the devil builds a chapel alongside.
A good man even in a tavern won't be spoiled, even church can save a bad man.
Even though the procession is long, it will still end up in church.
The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church.
Why is the man from Luoto in the church, just sleeps and dreams of herrings?
A tailor does not select his cloth.
Apes remain apes, though you cloth them in velvet.
You must cut your coat according to your cloth.
He should not complain of being cheated who buys the cloth by the sample.
Not wrapping it in cloth.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
God gives the cold according to the cloth.
Give a naked man a piece of cloth and he will say it is too thick.
Measure thy cloth ten times, thou canst cut it but once.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
When a once-beautiful piece of cloth has turned into rags, no one remembers that it was woven by Ukwa master weavers.
Maybe a naked person should not be taken to a cloth shop.
The cloth of shame does not warm and if it does, it does so only briefly.
When a man is wealthy he may wear an old cloth.
A cloth is not woven from a single thread.
You cannot draw white cloth from a dying vat.
No cloth can be better than your skin.
It is the cloth of an orphan that is often given to the guest.
You must cut your coat according to your cloth.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Give a man some cloth and he'll ask for some lining.
Better coarse cloth than naked thighs.
Where all adulterers to wear grey coats, the cloth would be dear.
If you give him cloth, he'll ask for the lining.
Our elders say that at sunset, it is one's cloth that one goes to remove from the village square.
Women and cloth should not be bought in the evening.
By candle light, neither women nor cloth.
Dress up once a year, and dress up in cloth.
The piece of cloth that is in another's bag does not patch your garmet.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Of little cloth but a short cloak.
The best cloth has uneven threads.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
When a naked person promises you cloth beware.
The worst you can do to truth is to cloth it in lies, you can't undo it.
When a man is wealthy, he may wear an old cloth.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
The cobbler should stick to his last.
There will be trouble if the cobbler starts making pies.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
A cobbler formed the shape of shoes on a wooden foot shaped last. If it lasted long he was happy.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
Cobbler, do not go beyond the last.
The cobbler should not go beyond his last.
The cobbler to his last and the gunner to his linstock.
Cobbler, stick to your last.
When a cock invites a cockroach for a birthday party, he has prepared dinner for himself.
Cockroach nuh business inna fowl fight.
When cockroach get in a trouble, him well glad fe fun go hide a fowl-house.
Cockroach neber so drunk him walk a fowl yard.
The cockroach inside the oakum, the more it tries to free itself, the more it's caught.
Fowls will not spare a cockroach that falls in their midst.
Cockroach ain't had no right in fowl cock company.
Cockroach ain't have nuh right at hen party.
If you've never been to a pit latrine, you will never know that cockroach is a chief.
In the birds' court, a cockroach never wins his case.
When the cockroach decides to make the cock its friend it must be ready to end up in the cock's stomach.
Fowls will not spare a cockroach that falls in their mist.
Befo' darg go widout supper, him nyam cockroach.
cockroach nebber so drunk he no crossy fowl-yard.
If the cockroach wants to rule over the chicken, then it must hire the fox as a body-guard.
Let it be a bite of a cockroach and fly with the wind.
A coconut shell full of water is a sea to an ant.
It is the fate of the coconut husk to float, for the stone to sink.
A fly does not mind dying in coconut cream.
The juice of an Immature coconut Is not like the real coconut juice.
Frog in a coconut shell.
A rotten coconut in a heap spoils the wholesome ones.
Water in a coconut shell is like an ocean to an ant.
He who selects coconut with great care ends up getting a bad coconut.
Whether the egg crashes on the coconut or the coconut crashes on the egg, it is the egg that suffers.
If you break a coconut on a man's head, he will not enjoy eating it.
The begining is bud the end is coconut.
He on whose head we would break a coconut never stands still.
A bad coconut spoils the good ones.
Coffee has two virtues, it's wet and it's warm.
Coffee from the top of the cup and chocolate from the bottom.
An American will go to hell for a bag of coffee.
Coffee and love are best when they are hot.
No bread is too hard for warm coffee.
Drink coffee while it's hot enough to make you swear but let the chocolate cool.
Coffee should be black as Hell, strong as death, and sweet as love.
Coffee is our bread.
Coffee and love taste best when hot.
A cup of coffee commits one to forty years of friendship.
Noh cup noh brok, noh coffee noh trow weh.
Coffee hot and the girl young.
On flows the time, half full still the heart of mine, coffee, smoking, all is fine.
Cowboy coffee ain't safe drinkin'.
Coffee is good in the morning and all day long. - (Finns are the most eager coffee drinkers of the world)
You may well have two legs but you still can't climb two trees at the same time.
Who cannot yet walk, cannot climb a ladder.
Life is a ladder -- some will climb up it, others down.
In a tree that you can't climb, there are always a thousand fruits.
When the tree falls, any child can climb it.
No one can climb a tree with no branches.
An old monkey never forgets how to climb trees.
If you climb up a tree, you must climb down the same tree.
When the shooting starts climb on your camel and head for the mountaintops.
Climb mountains to see lowlands.
He who is not happy with the position of the sun should climb and change it.
You cannot climb a bid of success with your hands tied up.
He who likes cherries soon learns to climb.
He who will not climb will not fall.
He who does not climb, will not fall either.
He that would have the fruit, must climb the tree.
It is difficult to teach a cow to climb a tree.
The macaco doesn't climb up the acacia tree two times.
Let the devil into church and he will climb into the pulpit.
At Taormina every climb has its descent.
When you climb the mountain and reach the top, do not forget the branches shrubs that helped your footing.
A smart person will not climb a mountain; A smart person will go around it.
She who does not yet know how to walk, cannot climb a ladder.
Death's ladder is there for everyone to climb.
If you climb up a tree, you must climb down the same tree.
The chakata fruit on the ground belongs to all, but the one on the tree is for she who can climb.
De higher de monkey climb, de more he does show he tail.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: I climb a tree without arms.
You are wise to climb Mt. Fuji, but a fool to do it twice.
You should climb Mount Fujiyama once in your life. Climb it twice and you're a fool.
If you never climb Mt. Fuji, you're a fool, and if you climb it more than once, you're a crazy fool.
Don't climb a tree to catch a fish.
The flatterer makes you climb up a tree then takes the ladder away.
The dragon teaches you that if you want to climb high you have to do it against the wind.
Looking for fish? Don't climb a tree.
To enjoy a grander sight, climb to a greater height.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: climb a tree without arms.
If you climb up a tree, you must climb down the same tree.
When there is a big tree, small ones climb on its back to reach the sun.
You don't have to climb the palm wine tree to drink palm wine.
The higher you climb, the harder you may fall.
At the center of climb is "I"
Не that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
Where you cannot climb over, you must creep under.
He who would climb the ladder must begin at the bottom.
Who sits on your shoulders will try to climb on your head.
After taking ninety-nine years to climb a stairway, the tortoise falls and says there is a curse on haste.
When apes climb high, they show their naked rumps.
It is easier to climb down than up.
The unqualified man desires to climb to the top; the bad man desires to sit at the head of the table.
He who inherits a hill must climb it.
He that would have the fruit must climb the tree.
To climb a tree to catch a fish is talking much and doing nothing.
No one falls low unless he attempt to climb high.
He that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends.
A clear conscience shines not only in the eyes.
Clear accounts and thick chocolate.
A clear sky fears not the thunder.
A clear conscience is more valuable than wealth.
Listen with kindness for a clear explanation.
When my child and I have eaten -- then clear the table.
To have a clear tongue is better than having goods which you can't manage well.
If the fountainhead is clear, the stream will be clear.
Heaven is dark and yet out of it streams clear water.
A clear conscience makes a soft pillow.
A clear conscience is a coat of mail.
Beer before liquor, you'll never be sicker, but liquor before beer and you're in the clear.
A clear conscience is a soft pillow.
When you go to bed with a clear head, you will not get up with a headache.
Ignorance of one's misfortunes is clear gain.
Poured clear water on hither hands.
Thick wine is better than clear water.
A clear bargain, a dear friend.
He who would have clear water should go to the fountain head.
If you yearry debil a come, clear de way.
When the moon is pale, it will rain; when it's red, it will be windy and when it's clear, it will be serene.
A clear conscience is a wall of brass.
Clear accounts make for long friendships.
Clear conscience never fears midnight knocking.
The man whose conscience is clear will never fear a knock on the door at midnight.
If you want to drink clear water from a well be there first.
Pride is said to be the last vice the good man gets clear of.
Pride is the last vice a good man gets clear of.
Reading makes a full man, meditation a profound man, discourse a clear man.
If you let the weeds grow for a year you will need seven to clear them.
If you want clear water, draw it from the spring.
Like a thunderstroke from a clear sky.
The earthen pot must keep clear of the brass kettle.
When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends.
Clear pacts, long friendship.
When there's a clear horizon in winter, there'll be the devil to pay.
Clear out of the ‘thakirio'.
The land enriches not people who clear it, but people who come.
You cannot clear fog with a fan.
Clear moon, frost soon.
The heart of a wise man lies quiet like clear water.
If you want to clear the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away.
A clear conscience is a soft mat (or pillow)
Empty the clear path to heaven, crowded the dark road to hell.
Fish cannot survive in absolutely clear water.
Pride is the last vice a good man gets clear of.
The coast is clear. (17th century)
After black clouds, clear weather.
Clear contracts make dear friends.
There is no muddy water that doesn't clear.
Make every bargain clear and plain, that none may afterwards complain.
Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
One coin saved, a hundred losses.
Where coin is not common, provisions can be scant.
Counterfeit coin passes current at night.
The blind man has picked up a coin.
Much coin, much care.
You never lose a false coin.
A coin to a cat.
Faults and virtues are but two sides of the same coin.
Those who try to deceive may expect to be paid in their own coin.
Every coin has two sides.
Pay in like coin.
For poor people small coin.
Pay back with the same coin.
Don't pay a single gold coin for the sorrell, but when he's good, be ready to spend a fortune.
A noble prince or king never has a coin to bless himself.
Loose words are picked up like gold coin.
Coin a phrase.
You never lose a false coin.
It is only in your coffin that you sleep really well.
A wooden bed is better than a golden coffin.
Every time one laughs a nail is removed from one's coffin.
When you're out of luck in the coffin making business, no one dies.
Only when the coffin is closed will we see how long lasting is the name.
Man's affairs are evaluated only after his coffin is closed.
The living are denied a table; the dead get a whole coffin.
A greedy mek fly follow coffin go a hole.
Bury truth in a golden coffin, it will break it open.
Dead man can' run from ‘e coffin.
Never dress in mourning before the dead man is in his coffin.
Get the coffin ready and watch the man mend.
The dead man doesn't know the value of his coffin.
The one who knows the way to the cemetery carries the tail end of the coffin.
Even Christ's coffin was not guarded for nothing.
Who drinks at night, buys himself death, who drinks in bed, buys himself a coffin.
The sky is of the same color wherever you go.
Look at my color, know my mood.
The chameleon changes color to match the earth, the earth doesn't change color to match the chameleon.
Ask me what are my virtues, not about the color of my skin.
Noble and common blood is of the same color.
In this treacherous world there is neither truth nor lie; everything is like the color of the crystal through which you gaze.
Truth has but one color, a lie has many.
A man's shirt does not change the color of his skin.
Wherever you go, the sky is the same color.
Judge wine by its taste, and bread by its color.
When it rains, collect the water.
Collect the water while it rains.
When the deal is done, discuss it no more; it is difficult to collect dispersed water.
Who doesn't collect kopecks will not get a ruble.
Collect promptly, pay slowly; who knows, in case of an accident, you'll pay nothing.
When the leopard has a broken paw, the antellope comes to collect an old debt.
Where the carcass is, there the ravens will collect together.
He who does not collect in summer, will heat little in winter.
It is easy to collect ears of corn under, beside a stack.
If you don't collect the sheep early, you get neither the sheep nor the wool.
He who goes to collect wool may come back shorn.
He who would be rich should not collect money, but reduce his needs.
The water you collect from the stream teaches you about its source.
If you are dancing with your rivals, don't close your eyes.
You can close the city gates but not the mouths of men.
An open countenance often conceals close thoughts.
Keep both eyes open before you are married and afterwards close only one.
The teeth and the tongue are close neighbors, and yet they sometimes bite each other.
Close to the Tsar, close to death.
Good comes from far away; evil is close at hand.
Your close neighbor is better than your faraway brother.
If you close one eye, you will not hear everything.
He who spekes ill of someone close to you in your presence sends you to tell him so.
Close, but no cigar.
Don't close the barn door after the horse runs away.
Nothing enters into a close hand.
Close only counts in horseshoes and hand-grenades.
Close the door from which the wind blows and relax.
A close mouth and open eyes never did any one harm.
You can close the city gates, but you can't close the people's mouths.
When you open a door, don't forget to close it. Treat your mouth accordingly.
A close mouth catches nae fleas.
It's too late to close the stable door after the horse has escaped.
Close the door and beat the dog.
A close friend can become a close enemy.
In the South they don't care how close you get, as long as you don't get too high. In the North, they don't care how high you get, as long as you don't get too close.
Take a close look then at today.
A resourceful man knows to avoid a disadvantageous situation close at hand.
Water from far away is no good for a fire close by.
The doorway to charity is difficult to open and difficult to close.
Distant water won't help to put out a fire close at hand.
He who is close to you knows more about you than he who is far away.
He who ventures into the bush should close his ears to rattling.
If you close your eyes because of the bad people around you, you will not see the good people passing by.
Keep your friends close but remember to keep your enemies closer.
If you close your eyes to facts, you will learn through accidents.
Generally with life you will be betrayed by close relatives.
Even if you close your eyes while looking in the mirror the image remains yours.
Before marriage open your eyes wide; afterwards close them tightly.
Close enough for horseshoes and hand grenades.
To have a friend, close one eye; to keep him, close both.
Close but no cigar.
The fingers have got pretty close to the thumb.
dig a well then close the well, but do not fire a worker.
O! my sister close thy door, and enough what happened to you.
He who would close another man's mouth, should first tie up his own.
A wise head makes a close mouth.
Take a close look then at today.
Slander is more deadly than weapons; weapons wound from close range, slander hurts from a distance.
Have a close look at the mother and then marry her daughter.
He who is close to the fire, will get warm best.
A close mouth catches no flies.
Nothing enters a close Hand.
Money has the capability of making people laugh; but when they laugh, the foolish ones sometimes forget to close their mouths.
It's the owner of the cow who walks close to her tail.
If you close the door, the devil will turn his back on you.
Send a fool to close the shutters and he'll close them all over town.
In the company of the blind, close your eyes.
Urge the horse close to the turning-post.
Close sits my shirt, but closer my skin.
He shaves close to the skin.
Close your mouth; that way, no mosquitos will fly in.
Close does not shoot any hares.
Keep your friends close and the Quebecois closer.
Close to a blacksmith, learn to hammer out nails; close to a carpenter, learn how to use a saw.
Tomorrow is close if you wait it.
A person is trying to benefit from being close to opposing parties.
Nothing enters into a close hand.
She is good who is close to the fire and does not burn.
The monkey never complains that he has no comb.
Experience is a comb which fate gives to a man when his hair is all gone.
The person who doesn't scatter the morning dew will not comb gray hairs.
Wisdom is a comb given to a man once he is bald.
Bald people can always find a comb.
A bald man carries a comb.
A scabby head fears the comb.
All cocks must have a comb.
Like trying to put a comb upon the nun's head.
A comb becomes bad when it hurts you.
People are equal like the teeth of a comb..
It is easy to work with a good comb, said the devil, when he combed his mother's hair with a pitchfork.
Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald.
He is a sorry barber who has but one comb.
Scabbed horse cannot abide the comb.
A galled horse will not endure the comb.
Wash a dog, comb a dog, still a dog remains a dog.
Do not pull everyone over a comb.
Blind men can judge no colours.
Blind men should not judge of colours.
A blind man is not judge of colours.
Even the colours of a chameleon are for survival not beauty.
It's an ill army when the devil carries the colours.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
Blind men shoulna be judge o' colours.
I shall paint you in your own colours.
All colours will agree in the dark. (Francis Bacon)
A blind man is not judge of colours.
I shall paint you in your own colours. [Take you according to your own showing.].
Smith and Wesson or a Colt always beat four aces.
Many a happy colt makes a fine horse.
The raggy colt often made a powerful horse.
A ragged colt may make a handsome horse.
The mare's kick does not harm the colt.
The mare's kicks are caresses to the colt.
A scabby colt may make a good horse.
An ass with her colt goes not straight to the mill.
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
A colt you may break, but an old horse you never can.
What the colt learns in youth his continues in old age.
A colt is good for nothing if it does not break its halter.
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
Often has a tattered colt grown to be a splendid horse. A ragged colt may make a good horse.
The mare's kick does not harm the colt.
Neighbours bring comfort in adversity but only envy in success.
To promise and give nothing is comfort for a fool.
Comfort is better than pride.
It is a hard task to comfort the proud.
God is the comfort of the poor.
Monreale, a city without comfort, either it rains, or the wind blows, or bells ring for the dead.
Hope is our only comfort in adversity.
There is not so much comfort in having children as there is sorrow in parting with them.
Even ugly faces are worth looking at -- and that is a great comfort for most people.
One year of joy, another of comfort, and all rest of content.
It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg, that another has broken his neck.
Small undertakings give great comfort.
Humour, to a man, is like a feather pillow. It is filled with what is easy to get but gives great comfort.
Five minutes of health comfort the ill one.
To promise and give nothing is comfort to a fool.
From the father comes honour, from the mother comfort.
With money you can comfort any woman.
It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg.
He was never good since the time a yard made a coat for him.
The wolf changes only his coat -- not his character.
Under a ragged coat lies wisdom.
Take off your hat to your yesterdays; take off your coat for your tomorrows.
A borrowed coat does not keep one warm.
Never watch a bonfire wearing a straw coat.
When a man's coat is threadbare, it is easy to pick a hole in it.
Do not measure another man's coat on your body.
A clear conscience is a coat of mail.
The three faults of drinking are: a sorrowful morning, a dirty coat, and an empty pocket.
You must cut your coat according to your cloth.
If you lend your coat, don't cut off the buttons.
Many an honest heart beats under a ragged coat.
The white coat does not make the miller.
A ragged coat finds little credit.
There is no coat big enough to hide both poverty and drunkenness.
The coat of truth is often lined with lies.
A cursed horse has a shining coat.
The wood is the poor man's coat.
No use crying at the market, sell your fur coat and drink the money.
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
A thread-bare coat is armour proof against highwaymen.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
The shirt is nearer than the coat.
The wolf changes his coat, but not his disposition.
Don't put gold buttons on a torn coat.
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.
Rather than run into debt, wear your old coat.
You must cut your coat according to your cloth.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
God promised me a fur coat, and I am already sweating.
He is turning his coat according to the wind.
Near is my coat, but nearer is my shirt.
Better plays a full wemb nor a new coat.
He sits wi' sits on his neighbour's coat tail.
If you have to have animals in your house, don't have either a dog or a cat with a red coat.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Link by link the coat of mail is made.
One cannot make a fur coat from a "Thank you.”.
Though you see me with this coat, I have another up the mountain.
Renounce the devil, and thou shalt wear a shabby coat.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
Why wear out your great coat in summer?
The wolf changes his coat but not his nature.
No one in a shabby coat is treated with respect.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
When a man's coat is threadbare it is easy to pick a hole in it.
Wear the old coat and buy a new book.
A full belly dances better than a fine coat.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Do not look at the coat, but at what is under the coat.
Do not judge by appearances; a rich heart may be under a poor coat.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Don't throw out the dirty water until you have the clean water in.
The crow pecks at the ox to clean it -- not to feed from it.
The best asset is a clean conscience.
A clean hand wants no washing.
Clean hands offend no one.
If you have honey, don't lick the pot clean.
If everyone swept the pavement in front of his house, the whole street would be clean.
Being clean is the half of faith.
He who doesn't clean his mouth before breakfast always complains that the food is sour.
Clean as God's fingertips.
Don't throw away dirty water before you have more clean water.
A clean mouth and honest hand, will take a man through any land.
A new broom sweeps clean, but the old brush knows all the corners.
What won't choke will fatten and clean dirt is no poison.
Clean your own yard first before asking others to clean theirs.
He who has a clean account, what fear of calculation does he have?
If each person would sweep before his own house, the city would soon be clean.
If everyone swept in front of his house, the whole town would be clean.
Dirty water does not wash clean.
If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean.
If mind is clean, fate is good.
If you want to sweep the steps clean, start at the top.
A silk dress doesn't mean clean undergarments.
Nothing is so clean as a fish.
If every man would sweep his own door-step the city would soon be clean.
New broom sweep clean, but de ole broom know de corner.
Keeping yourself and your food clean, you'll get more from it.
If one hand were the other they would both want to be clean.
Clean your heart and mind of negative thoughts.
The wind sweeps the road clean.
A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows the corners.
The world is our house. Keep it clean.
He who does not regularly put on clean socks will never get used to circus life.
Who walks in the mud, at some point must clean his feet.
If you want to clean the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away.
Him with a clean future has a clean past.
A dirty fire never made a clean weld.
Clean around your own back door before you clean around someone else's.
Dirt is dirtiest upon clean white linen.
Don't clean your fish before you catch it.
Clean your own doorstep before you clean someone else's.
Dirty hands make clean money.
Don't throw away your dirty water until you get clean.
First clean out your own backyard.
If the water is available you need not clean up with sand.
A clean hand moves freely through the land.
He must have clean fingers who would blow another's nose.
A ripe pear is more likely to fall in the shit than onto the clean ground.
Don't throw away your dirty water till you have got clean.
If I am to be drowned, it shall be in clean water.
A handstaff of holly, a buailtin of hazel,a single sheaf and a clean floor.
When the hand is clean, It needs no screen.
New brooms sweep clean.
A crow does not louse the buffalo to clean him but to feed himself.
A new Bissom sweeps clean.
When the right hand washes the left hand and the left hand washes the right hand, both hands become clean.
If a man is not clean and smooth, there is nothing he can really do about pride.
A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows every corner.
Some people clean a tap an' dutty underneath.
If each one sweeps before his own door, the whole street is clean.
Were every one to sweep before his own house, every street would be clean.
New brooms sweep clean.
He that wants to keep his house clean must not let priest or pigeon into it.
Don't be fooled by how clean the turban is, the soap was probably bought on credit.
A clean pig makes lean bacon.
To clean the beak by rubbing it on the ground.
The wind sweeps the road clean.
A clean conscience is the best pillow.
The tod keeps aye his ain hole clean.
To keep their ain hole clean, the minister's wife should.
no thro away dirty water befo' you hab clean.
He whose account is clean will have a happy face.
Commit a sin twice and it will not seem a crime.
You can pull back your leg, but not your committed word.
The sins we often regret are the sins we never commit.
He that looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath committed adultery already with her in his heart.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
The first mistake are theirs who commit them, the second are theirs that permit them.
To commit harakiri with a pestle.
A governor may commit arson while the governed are not allowed to light a lamp.
An image of a bamboo has already been formed in mind before it is committed to the painting canvas.
A newly committed crime awakens sleeping ones.
The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them.
He who has approved of wrongdoing is as guilty as he who has committed it.
It is easier not to commit a sin than to repent it.
Never murder a man who is about to commit suicide.
Who eats lying on his side will commit ten sins, who eats lying on his back will commit seven sins.
A fault denied is twice committed.
A fault that is denied once is committed twice.
Lose no rights, and commit no extortions.
Do not commit all to one boat.
Compromise is always a temporary achievement.
In the long run even a dog will compromise with the cat.
A lean compromise is better than a fat lawsuit.
Compromise makes a good umbrella but a poor roof.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
A meagre compromise is better than a fat lawsuit.
Don't compromise your beliefs for money.
It's insane to oppose when you can neither win nor compromise.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
Compare your griefs with those of other men and they will seem less.
Do not compare a fly with an elephant.
Acorns compare their height with each other.
You cannot compare the living with the dead.
Every woman needs two men - one to be married to and the other to compare.
You compare the tortoise to the hare.
You compare the moorhen to the I swan.
Who can compare with justice? It creates life.
To compare is not to improve.
You compare the bee to the grasshopper.
What makes us discontented with our condition is the absurdly exaggerated idea we have of the happiness of others.
Hell must be in bad condition when even the devil stays out.
When the plough enters a house, so does the condition of the family become vile.
Condition is 90 percent of the game.
What starts with a condition ends with out any oppression.
Peter is so godly that God does not improve his condition.
Each thief judges by his condition.
Condition is 90 percent of the game.
Condition makes, and condition breakes.
Don't be like a shadow: a constant companion, but not a comrade.
Beauty and folly are constant companions.
Constant dropping wears the stone.
Mother's truth keeps constant youth.
Constant company wears out its welcome.
Constant dropping wears away a stone.
Constant dripping wears away the rock.
One timely shout is better than constant talk.
Don't be like the shadow: a constant companion, yet not a comrade.
Constant rubbing of a rope will cut a stone.
Constant dripping wears away stone.
Constant occupation prevents temptation.
A field becomes exhausted by constant tillage.
Constant dropping wears away the stone.
Constant occupation prevents temptation.
A constant guest is never welcome.
The stone is hard and the drop is small, but a hole is made by the constant fall.
A constant guest is never welcome.
Little profit comes from constant drunkenness.
Even as the archer loves the arrow that flies, so too he loves the bow that remains constant in his hands.
Speech and action make the perfect conduct.
Look for the good, not the evil, in the conduct of members of the family.
Declare your line of conduct without reticence.
A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom.
Our good life sure is there for us, unless we learned some bad conduct in our home as children.
Honey-tongued, soft spoken, malicious, and unprincipled in conduct.
If you conduct yourself properly, then fear no one.
If a man is unhappy, his conduct is the cause.
Control of mental conduct, not skill, is the sign of a matured samurai.
We may give advice, but we cannot give conduct.
Courage without conduct is like a ship without ballast.
If you conduct yourself properly, fear no one.
Nobility of conduct is a greater recommendation than nobility of birth.
If your conduct be noble, you will be a king.
Learn good conduct at all times and in love of it you will grow ever stronger.
A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom.
If a man is unhappy, his conduct is the cause.
From education comes conduct.
Silence betokens consent.
Silence means consent.
Silence implies consent.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
An ignorant consent is no consent.
Silence means consent.
Better a friendly refusal than an unwilling consent.
To do a favour slowly is to begrudge it; to consent slowly shows unwillingness.
Silence gives consent. (14th century)
No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
From his silence a man's consent is inferred.
Confidence begets confidence.
The bridge between joy and sorrow is not long. Confidence begets confidence.
Who ever does not respect confidence will never find happiness in their path.
Politeness wins the confidence of princes.
Confidence of success is almost success.
Confidence is a plant of slow growth.
He who once ventures to lie, deserves no more confidence.
Sow fava bean and flax with confidence while you still have a full silo.
Have confidence, but beware in whom.
Confidence begets confidence. (Strauss 1994, p. 187)
Confidence is the companion of success.
Confidence begets confidence.
Confidence is a plant of slow growth.
The genuine friend, who is affected with the joys and sorrows of another, is a medicinal cordial, the sanctuary of the heart, the delight of the eyes, and worthy of confidence.
Guest coming into house – God coming into house.
Coming events cast their shadow before.
Life without endeavor is like entering a jewel-mine and coming out with empty hands.
By going and coming, a bird weaves its nest.
When a man is coming toward you, you need not say, "Come here."
To know the road ahead, ask those coming back.
If you want to find out about the road ahead, then ask about it from those coming back.
By coming and going, a bird constructs its nest.
He who never knows where is coming from will never know where he is going.
Such awkward things will happen as going into the great square and coming back without ears.
There is a good time coming.
If the palm of the hand itches it signifies the coming of great luck.
Let your love be like the misty rains, coming softly, but flooding the river.
The animal that is coming to be killed does not hear the hunter cough.
A bird doesn't alert his fellow bird that a stone is coming.
The person who is coming from the bowels of the earth doesn't despise even the smallest amount of sunshine.
Coming events cast their shadows before.
Went to Haj while pilgrims are coming back.
A man coming from far away tells us what he wants.
When ye're gawn and coming the gate's no toom.
The owl is mourning, rain is coming.
If March is late in coming, June will suffer.
The coming of nkele.
Horse, don't die yet, grass is coming.
Things coming from afar are most esteemed.
To find out about the road ahead, ask those coming back.
Coming back with arms longer than legs.
The snail is coming, who knows when it arrives.
one swallow does not herald the coming of spring.
He whose clothes are too fine, shall go about in rags.
The rich man may wear old clothes.
The wife carries the husband on her face; the husband carries the wife on his clothes.
The needle makes clothes but stays naked.
Clothes cover up character.
Borrowed clothes are either too tight or too loose.
When you meet a man judge him by his clothes, when you leave a man judge him by his heart.
May your clothes rip and wear out, but may you live on in good health and fulfillment.
He who wears too fine clothes, shall go about in rags.
He who is covered with other people's clothes is naked.
It is better to wear mended clothes than being without clothes or bare.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
A woman's clothes are the price her husband pays for peace.
Before you ask a man for clothes, look at the clothes that he is wearing.
If you take of your clothes for water you must bathe.
Dirty clothes are washed in the backyard.
A man who always wears his best kimono has no Sunday clothes.
Concealing truth is like wearing embroidered clothes and traveling by night.
Like the needle which clothes others while remaining naked.
You cannot tell from a man's clothes how much he is making, but you must look at his wife's.
He who keeps his old clothes, gains new ones too.
Dirty clothes one washes at home.
It is good to hold the clothes of one who is swimming.
God sends cold according to the clothes.
Many bring their clothes to church rather than themselves.
He who does not mend his clothes will soon have none.
The child will grow, his clothes will not.
No hang you clothes all pon one nail.
Stroke your dog, and he'll spoil your clothes.
Clothes make the man.
Take care of clothes since they are new, take care of your honor since you are young.
God sends cold after clothes.
Clothes put on while running come off while running.
The hypocrite is known by his actions, not by his clothes.
A pestle upon a peg, and a mortar upon a clothes line.
If there had been no poverty in europe, then the white man would not have come and spread his clothes in africa.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
Whoever got clothes hang out does look fuh rain.
Clothes should not be made for an unborn child.
Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?
A wife is like clothes and banana plant needs weeding.
There is no such thing as dirty clothes when it is cold.
Whoever tears his clothes must mend them himself.
Do not dress in clothes made of leaves when going to put out a fire.
Away from home they look at your clothes. At home they look at what is under them.
A woman who wants a child doesn't sleep in her clothes.
Even if you rease your clothes in very hot water you still need to dry them.
Clothes should not be made for an unborn child.
Common sense is genius dressed in its working clothes.
It is not the clothes that count, but the things the clothes cover.
Good clothes open all doors.
Clothes make the man.
Craftiness must have clothes, but truth loves to go naked.
God has spared the naked man from washing his clothes with soap.
God sends clothes to those with no proper figure, and bread to those with no teeth.
God sends men cold according to their clothes.
God gives clothes according to the cold.
Return the dolls clothes.
Clothes do not make the man.
Meat makes, and clothes shapes, but manners makes a man.
God sends men cold, as they have clothes to.
If you don't wish to have rags for clothes, don't play with a dog.
No fine clothes can hide the clown.
Stretch your legs according to your clothes.
A son will learn from his father to make a living, a daughter will learn from her mother to cut clothes.
With lightning and with love, the clothes sound, the heart burned.
He who dresses ion others' clothes will be undressed on the highway.
The drunkard and the glutton come to poverty, and drowsiness clothes a man with rags.
Showy clothes attract most.
A man is judged by his clothes.
There's no bad weather, there are bad clothes.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby. (Strauss 1994, p. 683)
I´ve got nothing but money and ragged clothes.
Take care of clothes from new, take care of [your] honor from when [you are] young.
He who does not mend his clothes will soon have none.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby.
The Lord gives cold according to one's clothes.
By learning to obey, you will know how to command.
Little is done where many command.
Command your wealth, else that will command you.
If the strong man has nothing else, he can at least command others.
Perhaps no one has a finer command of a language than he who keeps his mouth shut.
Command your man, and do it yourself.
He that cannot obey cannot command.
If you wanted obedience command with what is possible.
A great man's entreaty is a command.
It is a fine thing to command, though it be only a herd of cattle.
With money one may command devils; without it, one cannot even summon a man.
To command one must learn to obey.
Learn to obey before you command.
He who demands does not command.
God did not create woman from man's head, that he should command her, nor from his feet, that she should be his slave, but rather from his side, that she should be near his heart.
A master's request is a command.
He is not fit to command others that cannot command himself.
Counsel is nae command.
Riches serve a wise man, but command a fool.
Under my cloak I command the king.
It is an absurdity that he should rule others who cannot command himself.
Counsel is no command.
Riches serve a wise man but command a fool.
He has command of the sack who is seated on it.
He who has not obeyed, cannot command.
Command your man and do it yourself.
Thy sun rising high, shall command!
Only he knows how to command, who knows the one who is commanding.
When in doubt of what is right, consult your pillow overnight.
Consult the wise and do not disobey him.
Never consult a doctor who has never been ill himself.
Consult anyone, even your knees.
While the doctors consult, the patient dies.
Consult with your pillow.
If you want good advice, consult an old man.
If you wish to do a good deed, consult no one.
Even if you know a thousand things, still consult him who knows something.
While doctors consult, the patient dies.
Consult the wise and do not disobey him.
When your Companion is being shaved, put water.
A merry companion on the road is as good as a nag.
When you have no companion, look to your walking stick.
Choose your neighbor before your house and your companion before the road.
Everyone's companion is no one's friend.
One grain does not full the granary, but it helps its companion.
Ask my companion if I be a thief.
Who makes the wolf his companion should carry a dog under his cloak.
Everyone thinks of his own gain, and plays in this way to deceive his companion.
For a good companion good company.
The rotten apple spoils its companion.
Light is half a companion.
It is better to travel alone than with a bad companion.
Don't be like the shadow: a constant companion, yet not a comrade.
Your own small place is not like a big place of your companion.
A wicked companion invites us all to hell.
When bad luck chooses you as a companion, even a ripe banana can remove your teeth.
Take a dog for a companion and a stick in your hand.
I hate a jovial table companion with a good memory.
A good companion shortens the longest road.
A pleasant companion on a journey is as good as a postchaise.
He who has a companion has a master.
It is a solace to the miserable to have a companion in their grief.
Virtue our leader, fortune our companion.
Confidence is the companion of success.
Rather talk alone than with a mean companion.
It is better to travel alone than with a bad companion.
A wise enemy as a companion is better than a foolish friend.
An appetite is a true companion to plain bread.
A good companion shortens the longest road.
Common fame seldom lies.
Common goods, no goods.
There are forty kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense.
There is no distinction among the common baskets made of palm branches.
There are 40 kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense.
Where coin is not common, provisions can be scant.
Common sense ain't common.
Common fame is seldom to blame.
Noble and common blood is of the same color.
Seek advice but use your own common sense.
A field held in common is always ravaged by bears.
When two friends have a common bank account, one sings and the other weeps.
He who does not have common sense at age thirty will never have it.
To a seamen of Kwale, death by water is common experience.
Common sense is essential.
The conversation of the wise concerns ideas; that of the intelligent is about ideas; the common folk talk about food.
A diamond with a flaw is preferable to a common stone with none.
A diamond with a flaw is better than a common stone that is perfect.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
Common sense is very uncommon with a lot of people.
One pound of learning could require an army of common sense to apply it .
The common soldier's blood makes the general great.
The common horse is worst shod.
Unfit are some who complain of common food.
Common saw sindle lies.
Common proverbs of cooperation are:.
The ass that is common property is always the worst saddled.
Women and wine rid a man of his common sense.
A common blot is held no stain.
A man of good natural plain common sense.
Death is common to all.
Let no man refuse to endure that which is common to the lot of all.
She is not a modest woman whom common report condemns.
Knowledge, humbles a great person, astonishes the common, and puffs up the small.
The unwritten law - the common law.
Things which restrict the common are to be interpreted rigidly.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
A proverb is a short, pithy saying that expresses a traditionally held truth or piece of advice, based on common sense or experience.
Between friends all is common.
One pound of learning might have required many thousand persons of common sense to acquire it.
Provided common, commonly true.
Friends have all things in common.
A poor man has no contempt.
The poor ones give their alms in a humble way, the rich man throws them down with contempt.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Too much familiarity breeds contempt.
Trust not the praise of a friend nor the contempt of an enemy.
Familiarity breeds contempt; distance breeds respect.
A man gains nothing by vain glory but contempt and hatred.
When a man's mode of life is contemptible, it follows that his preaching is treated with contempt.
Some evils are cured by contempt.
Pride that dines on vanity sups on contempt.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Familiarity brings contempt.
The robin and the wren are God's cock and hen; the martin and the swallow are God's mate and marrow.
The cock goes to town for only four days and returns home a peacock.
There is little peace in that house where the hen crows and the cock is mute.
The hen lays an egg, and the cock feels the pain in his backside.
The hen tells the cock to crow.
A chick that will grow into a cock can be spotted the very day it hatches.
The cock that loses its pace time of cockadoodle should be dressed otherwise it will misguide you.
When a cock invites a cockroach for a birthday party, he has prepared dinner for himself.
If you are a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
An eloquent cock crows as soon as it comes out of the egg.
Every cock crows best on his own dunghill.
As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.
A good cock can never have too many hens.
The Blind hen, when it sees again, wants even to mount the cock.
Where the cock is the hen does not crow.
A good cock was never fat.
Every cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
Every cock will crow upon his own dunghill.
The cock is bold on his own dunghill.
Once a cock begins to crow, it never again becomes dumb.
When the cock is euphoric, the brain is amnesic.
When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is topsy-turvy.
Hens keep quiet when the cock is around.
Every cock is proud on his own dung hill.
Every cock crows on his own dunghill.
A good cock will crow on every dungheap.
Cockroach ain't had no right in fowl cock company.
Fowl cock en got nuh right in bulldog fight.
The village cock does not crow in town.
When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk.
The hen knows that dawn has arrived but it leaves the duty of crowing to the cock.
It is a surprise that the cock should hold a grudge against the pot, instead of the knife that killed it.
It is only the foolish cock that believes the sun won't rise if he doesn't crow.
Many hens may be in love with one cock, but none will be jealous of the other.
There is a wise reason why a cock can't sound like a turkey.
A dead cock never crows.
A cock says it's because of the situation it is faced with that it has its knees in the opposite direction.
The cock belongs to one household, but when it crows it is heard in the whole village.
Shame to the house where the hen crows and the cock is silent.
When the cockroach decides to make the cock its friend it must be ready to end up in the cock's stomach.
There's many a good cock come out of a tattered bag.
Who eats his cock alone must saddle his horse alone.
The cock often crows without a victory.
Daylight will come, though the cock do not crow.
As the old cock crows so crows the young.
Every cock can crow on his own dunghill.
A barley corn is better than a diamond to a cock.
A servant and a cock must be kept but one year.
It is a sorry house where the hens crow and the cock is silent.
Every cock is master upon his own dunghill.
As the old Cock craws, the young Cock lears.
It's a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock.
Our elders quote the cock as saying that "it would not be good if one becomes the only person in the world, and that is why they crow every morning to show their number".
The young cock said to the young chicken: the whole world is like our home.
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.
The chicken sings what the cock teaches him.
A good cock is always slim.
The hen ought not to cackle in presence of the cock.
The cock that crows at the wrong time is killed.
The chicken also knows when it's morning, but still watches the mouth of the cock.
The chicken also knows when it's morning, but still watches cock.
As long as a cock lives, it is said to have belonged to the child of the house; but when it is slaughtered for super, it is then that the real owner emerges.
It will be a forward cock that crows in the shell.
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
The hen flies not far unless the cock flies with her.
If you be a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
A cock is bold on his own dunghill.
A Cock is crouse upon his own midding.
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
Even the cock is jealous concerning his hen.
Every cock scratches around in his own garden.
Be a custom good or bad, a peasant will have it continue in force.
Unless the broken tooth is thrown out the mouth will continue to chew with caution.
I will do what I can, and a little less, to be able to continue at it.
A disease that fails to finish us off will continue being condemned forever.
A generous man must eat if he wants to continue to be one.
Whatever nourished the goat until it grew a beard will continue to sustain him.
Pray to God but continue to row to the shore.
If you continue to contaminate your own home.
May your reign
Continue for a thousand, eight thousand generations,
Until the pebbles
Grow into boulders
Lush with moss.
Choose your woman with a velvet glove, but control her with a fist of iron.
The greatest hero is one who has control over his desires.
Control of mental conduct, not skill, is the sign of a matured samurai.
Control your emotion or it will control you.
Laws control the lesser man... Right conduct controls the greater one.
Almost everyone is mad but some people can control there madness.
A good man may be controlled by his wife, while lesser man dominates his.
One who has control over his pants, hand and mouth has nothing to worry about.
Choose your woman with a velvet glove, but control her with a fist of iron.
If you have no teeth, do not break the clay cooking pot.
The broth is cooking, and now we have to act as one.
Everyone knows what's cooking in their pot.
A person who never travels, believes his mother's cooking is the best in the world.
The cooking pot on the fire leaks, when pouring water it is broken.
He who asks for salt does so for his own cooking pot.
A brother is a cooking pot, and a neighbour is a cooking pot lid.
Rice is all one but they are many ways of cooking it.
We all like lamb; each has a different way of cooking it.
Too many cooks, cooking at the same time makes the day take long to break.
Even the best cooking pot will not produce food.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away in the morning to avoid removing the ash; he will have to deal with it when he comes back.
Literal meaning: Cooking fat on honey.
Kissing don't last but cooking do.
Two smells of cooking meat break the hyena's legs.
If you have no teeth, do not break the clay cooking pot.
If you have no teeth, do not break to clay cooking pot.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away.
Don't spoil a cool place under the hospitable tree.
Drink coffee while it's hot enough to make you swear but let the chocolate cool.
That which burns thee not, cool not.
If you wait for the roasted liver to cool it will get cold in someone else's mouth.
If greedy wait, hot will cool.
Good words cool more than cold water.
Many irons in the fire, pare must cool.
Keep your breath to cool your crowdie.
He that hath many irons in the fire, some of them will cool.
You must live cool some time, even if you'll beg the rest of your life.
Good words cool more than cold water.
Jaan throws the hot stone into the sea, Jaak the cool and Mihkel the cold one.
Sit on the bank of a river and wait: Your enemy's corpse will soon float by.
The fly that has no one to advise it follows the corpse into the grave.
He lived a colonel but died a corpse.
The corpse of a bird does not decompose in flight, but on the ground.
The dead in heaven is too happy to grieve for indignities to his corpse; the dead in hell has too much else to grieve for.
The washer conceals the corpse.
A man without honor smells worse than a corpse.
A fly that has no one to advice it, follows the corpse into the grave.
The corpse of a bird does not decompose in flight, but on the ground.
A man is shy in another man's corner.
However full the house, the hen finds a corner to lay in.
Corner a dog in a dead-end street and it will turn and bite.
One eye in the corner is sharper than two about the house.
New broom sweep clean, but de ole broom know de corner.
It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house.
If you get rich, be in a dark corner when you jump for joy.
A chicken with beautiful plumage does not sit in a corner.
Drive a rat into a corner, and he'll jump at you.
In a small house God has His corner, in a big house He has to stand in the hall.
A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows every corner.
What's done in the corner will come to the hearth.
Every man has a secret corner of his mind that nobody will ever know.
Children are fooled by telling that there are monsters around the corner.
Do not correct with a strike that which can be taught with a kiss.
You're correct, but the goat is mine.
Our proverbs are sacred and correct.
You can correct a mistake.
Through other people's faults, wise men correct their own.
One who talks to himself can not be wrong.Ie no one to correct him.
A man who has committed a mistake and doesn't correct it is committing another mistake.
By others' faults wise men correct their own.
It is the duty of friends mutually to correct each other.
Correct the map of the Republic of India mentioned on your website, it shows pok is part of Pakistan not of India.
You're correct, but the goat is mine.
The account is correct, but not a sixpense appears.
Revenge is a dish served cold.
Under the mountains is silver and gold, But under the night sky, hunger and cold.
If there are two cooks in one house, the soup is either too salty or too cold.
Once burned by milk you will blow on cold water.
One who bathes willingly with cold water doesn't feel the cold.
Pigs in the cold and men in drink make a great noise.
The scalded dog fears cold water.
What keeps out the cold keeps out the heat.
Cold hearts can find warm words.
Yes, old: But never sexually cold.
Revenge is a dish that tastes better cold.
One does not like hot, the other does not like cold; make it tepid to make an agreement.
If one tells you the harira is cold, tell him to put his hand in it.
If there were no cold Friday evenings and boring Saturdays, no one would get married any more.
Cold teaches a man how to steal charcoal.
When your luck deserts you, even cold food burns.
The taste of cold water after drinking, is a pleasure that the teetotaler will never know.
Because of their figure, vain women stay cold.
Until a crab finds itself in a very hot pot of soup, it will never understand that water can be both cold and hot.
A dead man feels no cold.
Feed a cold, starve a fever.
Cold hands warm heart.
A dog's nose and a maid's knee are always cold.
Women's counsel is cold.
He who sleeps along keeps long cold, two soon warm each other.
Revenge in cold blood is the devil's own act and deed.
Cold hands, warm heart.
A cat that has been scalded is afraid of cold water.
Hunger and cold surrender a man to his enemy.
When the master has a cold the servants sneeze.
The scalded dog fears hot water, and afterwards, cold.
A scalded dog thinks cold water hot.
God sends cold according to the clothes.
He could not earn enough to buy even cold water.
A cold needs the cook as much as the doctor.
He who waits for another's platter has a cold meal.
He who protects himself from cold also wards off heat.
March cold reaches even bull's horns.
Both cold and hunger make the mouth quiver.
No wind is too cold for lovers.
A scalded cat dreads cold water.
God gives the cold according to the cloth.
The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.
When the Czar has a cold all Russia coughs.
As the day lengthens, so the cold strengthens.
Fox's broth, cold and scalding.
Every one feels the cold according as he is clad.
God sends cold after clothes.
Even over cold pudding, the coward says: "it will burn my mouth.”.
If you wait for the roasted liver to cool it will get cold in someone else's mouth.
Always assume your guest is tired, cold and hungry, and act accordingly.
Going to be a cold day in hell.
When cold revenge is served, the dish is always very good.
If the qivon is cold, the blood is hot.
All we can hold in our cold dead hands is what we have given away.
There is no such thing as dirty clothes when it is cold.
You warm up something for ten days and it goes cold in one.
If you make love in the shade you get cold.
A woman is like a blanket: If you cover yourself with it, it bothers you; if you throw it aside you will feel the cold.
Because men do not like the cold, Heaven does not cause winter to cease.
If the lips are gone, the teeth will grow cold.
It takes more than one cold day for a river to freeze three feet deep.
Better the cold blast of winter than the hot breath of a pursuing elephant.
The house rat who goes swimming with his friend the lizard will die from cold.
He who lends out his door should be ready for the cold blowing wind.
Never lose heart because whatever is hot must in the end turn cold.
A dead enemy is as good as a cold friend.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
The longest at the fire soonest finds cold.
Cold pudding settles love.
Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold.
Good words cool more than cold water.
Revenge is a dish that should be eaten cold.
You are striking cold iron.
It makes no sense to try to forge the iron whilst it is still cold.
God sends men cold according to their clothes.
Marriage is the opposite to a fever attack; it begins very hot and ends very cold.
God gives clothes according to the cold.
A scalded cat fears cold water.
A scalded cat dreads cold water.
Without ceres and Bacchus, Venus grows cold.
Cold cools the love that kindles over hot.
Let them that are cold blow at the coal.
God sends men cold, as they have clothes to.
It's a cold coal to blow at.
Little kens the wife that sits by the fire, how the wind blows cold in hurle-burle swyre.
Ye seek hot water under cold ice.
Midday sun is the remedy for a cold.
A man with a cough cannot conceal himself.
Love and a cough cannot be hidden.
If you come near the river, you will hear the crab cough.
Love, fire, a cough, the itch, and gout are not to be concealed.
When at a loss how to go on, cough.
Love, a cough, and smoke, are hard to hide.
Even fleas want to cough.
The animal that is coming to be killed does not hear the hunter cough.
If you live by the river you can hear the crab cough.
Cough is the old man's laughter.
A cough will stick longer by a horse than a peck of oats.
No one is content with his lot.
Let every one be content with what God has given him.
He is not poor that hath not feel content.
The great question is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with failure.
Never be content with your lot. Try for a lot more.
Content is an everlasting treasure.
A sabbath well-spent brings a week of content.
He who wants content can't find an easy chair.
He has nothing who is not content with what he has.
The stomach is not content with nice words.
The richest man, whate'er his lot, is the one content with what he's got.
Better a handful of dried figs and content with that, than to own the gate of peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
He is poor who does not feel content.
A person whose heart is not content is like a snake which tries to swallow an elephant.
The sweetness of a kola nut doesn't lie in its sugar content.
Be content and do not heed the goadings of ambitions.
No man is content with his lot.
One year of joy, another of comfort, and all rest of content.
The slave must be content with the joys of his master.
He who can't get bacon, must be content with cabbage.
They need much, whom nothing will content.
Nothing will content him who is not content with a little.
Content lodges oftener in cottages than palaces.
He that wants content canna sit easy in his chair.
Don't look for speed in a cheap horse; be content if it neighs.
The one who loses his faith will never be content.
When you have brains to go along with your wealth you can call yourself happy and content.
He who has everything is content with nothing.
Who has seen death will be content with illness.
We are content to forgo joy when pain is also lost.
If flesh is not to be had, fish must content us.
They need much whom nothing will content.
Content is happiness.
Where there is content there is abundance.
Do not say the first thing that comes to your mind.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it comes home broken at last.
Prepare yourself for when the water comes up to your knees.
When the bee comes to your house, let her have beer; you may want to visit the bee's house some day.
After bad luck comes good fortune.
Even the mightest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest.
Evening promises are like butter: morning comes, and it's all melted.
What is greatly desired is not believed when it comes.
The misfortune that comes into town does not wear a turban.
Pain is forgotten where gain comes.
A better seldom comes after.
A bad penny always comes back.
This is not Kashan where the heap comes with the coolies.
It is a real compliment that comes from an enemy.
Strength comes from union.
Taking out without putting in, soon comes to the bottom.
The greater love is a mother's; then comes a dog's; then a sweetheart's.
The hot sun melts away the snow; when anger comes, does wisdom go.
When wine comes in, modesty leaves.
Blessed is the misfortune that comes alone.
Not everything, which is bad, comes to hurt us.
Water in the mouth before eating; water in the eyes when the bill comes.
The best ointment comes in small boxes.
Help from abroad always comes when the rain has stopped.
He that comes unbidden goes unthanked.
Trouble never comes alone.
You get to really know your friend when trouble comes.
Comes in at the end with a wet sail.
Pride comes before a fall.
Good comes from far away; evil is close at hand.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan, along comes the beetle and sticks out her foot.
When hunger comes through the door, love jumps out the window.
The devil goes away and heaven comes to stay.
He who comes from hell is not afraid of hot ashes.
Only when a new government comes to power do you learn to appreciate the values of the old one.
Wise man's anger never comes out.
What comes easily is lost easily.
What comes this way, goes this way.
When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes.
When you wait for tomorrow it never comes. When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes.
Let your love be like drizzle: it comes softly, but still swells the river.
That which you put into your soup kettle, comes latter onto your spoon.
Slowness comes from God and haste from the Devil.
Sitting quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself.
The hunter who always comes home with meat is a thief.
He who climbs a ladder comes down again.
After hardship comes relief.
If unreason comes, reason goes.
Don't rejoice over him that goes, before you see him that comes.
Poke a bush, a snake comes out.
Repentance never comes first.
If an opportunity is not taken when it comes, it passes away.
If the hunter comes back with mushrooms, don't ask him how his hunt was.
He who goes to the blacksmith's shop comes home with scorched clothes.
A woman is never old when it comes to the dance she knows.
What comes from the lips reaches the ears, what comes from the heart reaches the heart.
The leopard that covers its black spots with hamaton dust solution will truly be exposed when the rain season comes.
The voice that comes to borrow is more humble than the voice that comes to sake payment.
If the fish comes out of the river to tell you that the crocodile has one eye, you should believe it.
Christmas comes, but once a year is enough.
Take each day as it comes.
What goes around comes around.
Ill comes often on the back of worse.
Truth comes back where she has once visited.
A dimple in the chin, your living comes in; a dimple in the cheek, your living to seek.
After a storm comes a calm.
He that enquires all opinions, comes ill speed.
Poison is poison though it comes in a golden cup.
There comes nothing out of the sack but what was there.
Everything comes to him who waits.
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
An eloquent cock crows as soon as it comes out of the egg.
The pebble comes from the mountain.
Words of wisdom comes out of simple people mouths.
Opinion comes before the bravery of the braves.
When dirt comes to honour it know not what to be.
Who has, let him thereof take heed; love wanes, misfortune comes with speed.
Let your trouble tarry till its own day comes.
He who brings bad tidings, comes soon enough.
Rest comes from unrest, and unrest from rest.
What comes from the heart, goes to the heart.
What comes seldom, comes sharp.
Who knows nothing in his thirtieth year, is nothing in his fortieth, has nothing in his fiftieth; learns nothing, is nothing, and comes to nothing.
Winter comes fast on the lazy.
After the gathering comes the scattering.
The cat is always dignified, until the dog comes by.
Don't build the sty until the litter comes.
No matter who comes off well, the peacemaker is sure to come off ill.
Go away and the conversation changes.
He who begins a conversation does not foresee the end.
Not everything you hear is good for conversation.
Proverbs in conversation are torches in darkness.
Words in conversation are like beans, one breaks them off where they are ripe.
Listening well is as powerful as talking well, and is also as essential to true conversation.
A single conversation across the table with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
A man's conversation is the mirror of his thoughts.
A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study.
To heaven for the music but to hell for a good conversation.
Conversation shortens the distance, singing lightens the load.
When your wine is finished, conversation ends; when your money has been spent, you lose your friends.
Avoid bawling in conversation or in play.
A good conversation is better than a good bed.
Although there exist many thousands of subjects for elegant conversation, there are persons who cannot meet a cripple without talking about feet.
The conversation of the wise concerns ideas; that of the intelligent is about ideas; the common folk talk about food.
If you wish to know what most occupies a man's thoughts, you have only to listen to his conversation.
To listen well is as powerful a means of influence as to talk well and is as essential to all true conversation.
Education begins a gentleman, conversation completes him.
Conversation is like making love; the man is the question, the woman the answer, and the union of both will bear fruit.
After the rain the grass will grow; after wine, conversation.
A proverb is the horse of conversation: when the conversation lags, a proverb revives it.
Conversation ministers to a mind diseased.
When the fox is engaging you in conversation, keep an eye on your chicken.
A single conversation with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
No more wine, no conversation, no more money, no friends.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
It is better to be alone than to be in bad company.
Misery loves company.
Even the dead in their family vaults enjoy being in large company.
Two in harmony are in god's company.
Trumpet in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cocks; bleat in a flock of goats.
Try to be in good company, even when you are alone.
Virtue never goes far without the company of idleness.
Good company on the road is the shortest cut.
The prickly pear has company only when it bears fruit.
Happiness rarely keeps company with an empty stomach.
No road is too long in the company of a friend.
The company of the wicked is like living in a fish market; one becomes used to the foul odor.
Two's company, three's a crowd.
Keep good men company, and you shall be of the number.
Beauty and folly go often in company.
Better be alone than in bad company.
A crowd is not company.
Poverty parts good company.
Choose your company before you go drinking.
Constant company wears out its welcome.
Would you know your daughter? See her in company.
He keeps his road well enough who gets rid of bad company.
The company makes the feast.
He is not an honest man who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company that the soup is hot.
Keep company with good men, and you'll increase their number.
Who keeps company with a wolf will learn to howl.
With the first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy.
Good company makes short miles.
In the company of the good we become good.
The third person makes good company.
The best company must part, as king dagobert said to his hounds.
A glass for the vodka, for the beer a mug, and for the table, cheerful company.
No camel route is long with good company.
For a good companion good company.
If you are choosing between bad company and loneliness, choose the second option.
Three makes a company.
Tell me the company you keep, and I will tell you who you are.
If you would be respected in company, seek the society of your equals and not of your superiors.
Better to be alone than in bad company.
Two's company, the third person is an intruder.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cockerels; bleat in a flock of goats.
A man is known by the company he avoids.
The first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy.
The dead are not seen in the company of the living.
It is better to be alone than in bad company.
Company in distress makes trouble less.
Solid learning makes a man fit company for himself.
Keep not ill company lest you increase the number.
It is better to be alone than in bad company.
Cheerful company shortens the miles.
Having finished the meal, the company leaves.
A crowd is not company.
Learning makes people fit company for themselves.
He that laughs when he is alone will make sport in company.
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
Avoid the company of a liar. And if you can't avoid him, don't believe him.
You can judge a man by the company he keeps.
He that boasteth of himself affronteth his company.
Cheerful company shortens the journey.
Two is company, but three is none.
Better alone than in bad company.
A person is known by the company he keeps.
The bread eaten, the company departs.
Misery loves company.
Better alone than in bad company.
Good company on the road is the shortest of short cuts.
Tell me the company you keep, and I will tell you who you are.
Ill company brings many a man to the gallows.
Better be alone than in bad company.
We are esteemed and treated by the company we keep.
Better be alone nor in ill company.
Sike a man as thou would be, draw thee to sike company.
His room's better than his company.
Kend fouk's nae company.
Poverty parts good company, and is an enemy to vertue.
Dirt parts company.
Good company on a journey is worth a coach.
At table keep short hand; in company keep a short tongue.
It is better to be alone than to be in bad company.
Company drags a man to the scaffold.
The smaller the company the bigger the share.
If bad be the raven, his company is no better.
Speak little in the company of the old.
A cunning man likes the company of a fool.
It is better to be alone than to be in bad company.
Better alone than in bad company.
Good company on a journey is worth a coach.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A clear conscience shines not only in the eyes.
Conscience is the voice of the soul.
The best asset is a clean conscience.
A guilty conscience is a lively enemy.
A lie has no author, nor a liar a conscience.
A good conscience is better than a big wage.
A clear conscience is more valuable than wealth.
In the courtroom of the conscience, a case is always in progress.
Conscience is what tells you not to do what you have just done.
Those who sacrifice their conscience to ambition burn a painting to obtain ashes.
A clear conscience makes a soft pillow.
A clear conscience is a coat of mail.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
You may often feel that heavily on your back which you took lightly on your conscience.
A good conscience is a soft pillow.
A clear conscience is a soft pillow.
A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy.
Conscience makes cowards of us all.
Conscience is the nest where all good is hatched.
At Caltagirone a hairy conscience and a crown with fifteen places.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A grand eloquence, little conscience.
A turn of the key is better than the conscience of a friar.
At the bar of one's own conscience.
Conscience betrays guilt.
A clear conscience is a wall of brass.
Conscience is as a thousand witnesses.
No one else can represent your conscience.
A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy.
Be the master of your will and the slave of your conscience.
Conscience is the dog that can't bite, but never stops barking.
Guilty conscience wont let the eddoes cook.
A guilty conscience feels continual fear.
Clear conscience never fears midnight knocking.
The man whose conscience is clear will never fear a knock on the door at midnight.
You can't kid your conscience.
Conscience is only another name for truth.
A good conscience is a continual feast.
Better a good conscience without wisdom than wisdom without a good conscience.
Doctors purge the body, ministers the conscience, lawyers the purse.
The belly does not have a conscience.
Conscience is the chamber of justice.
A pain that pricks the conscience is more effective than a lot of whiplashes.
A salesman has pig's soul, sheep's brain and dog's conscience.
It is always term-Time in the Court of Conscience.
A clear conscience is a soft mat (or pillow)
He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes.
Conscience cannot be compelled.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A guilty conscience feels continual fear.
A clean conscience is the best pillow.
It's so bright white like the conscience of an angel.
A sleeping fox counts chicken in his dreams.
Your friend chooses pebbles for you and your enemy counts your faults.
Anything with scales counts as fish.
Close only counts in horseshoes and hand-grenades.
The sun dial counts only the bright hours.
Every one counts for as much as he has.
It's the thought that counts.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
He counts his chickens before they are hatched.
The man who counts the bits of food he swallows is never satisfied.
He that counts his friend's mistakes will be abandoned by him.
The praise of a thousand jesters counts for nothing against the reprimand of one wise man.
God counts her tears.
He that counts all costs will never put plough in the earth.
I would I had as meikle pepper as he counts himself worthy Mice dirt.
He that counts but his Host, counts twise.
Getting married with a woman is nothing; it's assuming the responsibility of marriage that counts.
It is not the size of the dog in the fight that counts, but the fight in the dog that wins.
What's at home, counts.
What counts is not necessarily the size of the dog in the fight - it's the size of the fight in the dog.
A benevolent man should allow a few faults in himself to keeps his friends in countenance.
Truth has a handsome countenance but torn garments.
A gift with a kind countenance is a double present.
It is a sin against hospitality to open the doors and shut up the countenance.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
He assumes a cheerful countenance suppressing the grief which weighs heavily on his heart.
Merit is often belied by the countenance.
A benevolent man should allow a few faults in himself to keeps his friends in countenance.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
It is easier to take a couple of drinks than to refuse them.
It is not the fire in the fireplace which warms the house, but the couple who get along well.
If you are offered a span, do not take a couple of yards.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
A deaf husband and a blind wife will always make a happy couple.
Twa fools in a house are a couple o'er mony.
The devil dances nowhere as much as between a couple.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
If you see a couple getting on well, you know it's down to one of them.
The old boot gets the old stocking. (Said when an old couple marries.)
Courteous men learn courtesy from the discourteous.
Courtesy is cumbersome to them that ken it not.
Courtesy that is all on one side cannot last long.
Courtesy never offended anybody.
Lip courtesy pleases much and costs little.
An excess of courtesy is a discourtesy.
A courtesy much entreated is half recompensed.
A little courtesy will go a long way.
Too much courtesy, too much craft.
Courtesy on one side only never lasts for long.
Courtesy is the password to safety.
Full of courtesy, full of craft.
He that asketh a courtesy promiseth a kindness.
Pluck not a courtesy in the bud.
Overwhelming courtesy raises concern that you may be being deceitful.
Full of courtesy, full of craft.
Less of your courtesy, and more of your purse.
Lip courtesy avails much and costs little.
When a woman laughs an experienced man will know how much it will cost him.
If "How are you?" cost a cent, few would hear it.
The cost is high of the honey that must be licked from thorns.
There is no cure that does not cost.
Look for a thrifty woman -- even though it may cost you a pair of shoes.
Always count the cost.
What you learn to your cost you remember long.
Compliments cost nothing, yet many pay dear for them.
The poor man eats at double cost.
He that exceeds his commission must answer for it at his own cost.
When a habit begins to cost money, it's called a hobby.
Do not make jokes that cost more than a ruble.
A woman's tears are worth a lot, but cost little.
Cheap things cost a lot of money.
Friendly words gain much and cost nothing.
He was entrapped by the evening, it has cost him his marriage.
Kind words are worth much and they cost little.
He was entrapped by the evening, it has cost him his marriage.
It is better to save your innocence at the cost of your honor, than to save your country at the cost of your life.
He who burns down his house knows why ashes cost a fortune.
Time saved at the cost of an accident is no saving.
Good words cost nought.
Forget brotherhood, each goat will cost your seven dinars.
Much never cost little.
Quha may wooe, but Cost?
When the cost is high think about it, when it's low, buy a lot.
The real cost for both a neat house and a well kept vineyard is incalculable.
Too nice can cost a lot of money.
Being too nice can cost a lot.
Love others well, but love thyself the most; give good for good, but not to thine own cost.
Overseas, a cow costs a quarter of kopeck, but it will cost a rouble to ship it here.
Health and cheerfulness make beauty; finery and cosmetics cost money and lie.
He gets his wisdom cheaply who gets it at another's cost.
I have lost my labour and my cost.
More cost, more worship.
Cost goes before the profit.
You can't tell the cost of food and fuel without being the head of a household; you can't appreciate the love of your parents without having children of your own.
Good words cost nothing and arc worth much.
It is eich to cry yule on another man's cost.
The good words cost little.
Every course of water has its source.
In his heart a man may plan his course but God determines his every step.
The devil was good looking at eighteen, and course tea makes a bitter first cup.
How many daily read the Bible, and yet pursue their course of evil.
Can I pull down the sun with a forked stick, or prevent it from running its course?
Being warned, let us pursue a better course.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
It will happen when the Danube reverts its course or dries up.
The wolf does that in the course of the week which hinders him from going to mass on Sunday.
I see the better course and approve of it; I follow, alas! the worse!
It is better to turn back than to persevere in an evil course.
A woman either loves or hates, there is no third course.
A middle course is the safest.
Science is unlimited in its course; life is short.
Pursue that course which offers most advantages, habit will soon make it agreeable and easy.
Scholars are invaluable to a nation as the best course to a banquet.
Youth will have its course.
Use fertilizer to change the course of nature.
What harm is there in a good word? It costs nothing.
Drink upon salad costs the doctor a ducat; drink upon eggs costs him two.
There is no pleasure that does not pall, the more so if it costs nothing.
Another man's trade costs money.
It is better to give than to lend and it costs about the same.
Asking costs little.
What costs little is little esteemed.
Lip courtesy pleases much and costs little.
That costs dear which is bought with begging.
The maw costs much.
Civility costs nothing.
Repentance costs dear.
Death does not come free of charge, for it costs us our life.
A drop of water in the eyes of the Tsar costs the country many handkerchiefs.
No matter how worthless a man may be, kill him and see how much he costs you.
Take a second look. It costs you nothing.
It costs you your good spirit to steal than buying or seeking.
It costs something to be a Christian, but it costs more to be a sinner.
Another's bread costs dear.
He that counts all costs will never put plough in the earth.
Lip-honour costs little, yet may bring in much.
Men are very generous with what costs them nothing.
A favour often costs more than what's hard-bought.
Partinico is a good town, good wine and low costs.
Experience costs blood.
If charity costs nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists.
What costs nothing is worth nothing.
To enjoy life is worth so much more than it costs.
Overseas, a cow costs a quarter of kopeck, but it will cost a rouble to ship it here.
Vinegar that costs nothing is sweeter than honey.
There is no pleasure but palls, and the more so if it costs nothing.
A sooty chimney costs many a beef-steak.
Another's bread costs dear.
Arrogance costs a fortune.
It costs something to be a Christian, but it costs more to be a sinner.
A good word is worth much and costs little.
The man with a fixed income lives with anxiety and suffers as the costs of goods fluctuate.
It costs nothing to look.
Repentance costs dear.
Lip courtesy avails much and costs little.
You cannot cook your eggs with wind.
He who has not traveled thinks that his mother is the best cook in the world.
There is never enmity between the cook and the butler.
If a man looks upon your wife pluck out his eye and cook it in a goodly stew. If he eats the stew his manhood will wither and fall off in the next moon.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
The person who has not traveled widely thinks his or her mother is the best cook.
A lovelorn cook over-salts the porridge.
He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
A cold needs the cook as much as the doctor.
Cook in June and July, dish it out in August and September.
No cook ever died of starvation.
A good fire makes a quick cook.
First catch your hare, then cook it.
Whatever the type of firewood found in a place, it is usually good enough for the people of that place to cook with.
The person who has not travelled thinks his or her mother is the best cook.
You cannot cook one half of the chicken and leave the other lay eggs.
The cook does not have to be a beautiful woman.
Hunger is a good cook.
Guilty conscience wont let the eddoes cook.
Without rice, even the cleverest housewife cannot cook.
Talk does not cook rice.
You cannot cook two meals in the same pot.
He who has not traveled widely thinks that his mother is the best cook.
No matter how hot your anger may be it cannot cook.
A bad cook also has his/her share of the bad food.
If she can't dig or cook send her back to her father.
Only a fool argues with the cook.
Go and wake up your cook.
You may cook in small pots aw well as in large ones.
Hunger is the best cook, but he has nothing to eat.
Hunger is the best cook.
He is a fairy Cook, that may not lick his own fingers.
An ill Cook would have a good Cleaver.
When you cook a guinea fowl, the partridge gets a headache.
Rich people cook their food in a potsherd.
When the cook and the steward fall out, we hear who stole the butter.
You don't have to know much to read, but you do to cook.
If your guest becomes a cook, your larder will soon be empty.
The best cook drops a whole tomato.
Fly fly ladybug under the big stone, there is your dad, your mom will cook porridge for you.
Do not try to cook the goat's young in the goat's milk.
Patience can cook a stone.
The lid rolled and found the cook.
Only a fool argues with the cook.
Every cook praises his own broth.
When the cook is roasting for the butler, woe to the master's wine-cask.
Better wait on the cook than the doctor.
Hunger is the best cook.
A good fire gives the cook latitude.
Hunger is the best cook.
He who covers you discovers you.
Renounce a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak.
A great affair covers up a small matter.
The leopard that covers its black spots with hamaton dust solution will truly be exposed when the rain season comes.
Many a white collar covers a dirty neck.
The earth covers the errors of the physician.
A mother-in-law may be good, but she is better when mother earth covers her up.
He covers me with his wings, and bites me with his bill.
A good name covers theft.
A great affair covers up a small matter.
Ears have no covers.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
Love covers many infirmities.
A fair skin often covers a crooked mind.
Time covers and discovers everything.
Charity covers a multitude of sins.
That which covers thee discovers thee.
Avoid a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak.
Money covers blame.
When the door is closed, you must learn to slide across the crack of the sill.
He that would have the kernel must crack the shell.
If you don't seal a crack, you will build wall.
He that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
Step on a crack break your mother's back.
God gives the nuts, but he doesn't crack them.
He that wants the kernel must crack the nut.
If you give a man nuts then give him something to crack them with.
An old coachman loves the crack of the whip.
If you do not fill up a crack, you will have to build a wall.
If you don't mend up a small crack on the wall you end up building the entire wall.
God gives us nuts but he does not crack them for us.
You must crack the nuts before you can eat the kernel.
Marriage is like a groundnut, you have to crack it to see what is inside.
Nutcrackers crack cedar seeds, monks crack rosary beads.
When the water level decreases, the ice will crack.
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
If you don't crack the shell, you can't eat the nut.
If ye like the nut, crack it.
Не that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
Meikle crack fills nae sack.
He that wad eat the kernel maun crack the nut.
Every one is a thief in his own craft.
A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft.
Be not ashamed of your craft.
He who is of the craft can discourse about it.
Too much courtesy, too much craft.
Full of courtesy, full of craft.
It destroys the craft not to learn it.
Women's tears are a fountain of craft.
An old fox needs learn no craft.
Full of courtesy, full of craft.
In a court of fowls, the cockroach never wins his case.
Women have no court.
Always to court and never to wed is the happiest life that ever was led.
At court they sell a good deal of smoke without fire.
He who would succeed at court, must lie sometimes low, sometimes high.
No good lawyer ever goes to court himself.
Never wrestle with a strong man nor bring a rich man to court.
Court not companionship with tigers.
Home is home, as the Devil said when he found himself in the Court of Session.
The prince is never guilty in his father's court.
The court official in one life has seven rebirths as a beggar.
The eyes that beheld the chief don't fear for a court official.
The cockroach cannot be innocent in a court where the hen is judge.
Maize cannot get justice in a chicken's court.
In the birds' court, a cockroach never wins his case.
Far from court, far from care.
The steps at court are slippery.
Donkeys only come to the court to carry bags.
At court there are many hands, but few hearts.
If you go to court leave your soul at home.
Don't go to law with the devil in the court of hell.
Don't be ever in court or a castle without a woman to make your excuse.
The court is most merciful when the accused is most rich.
A friend in Court is worth a penny in purse.
Leave the Court, ere the Court leave thee.
Highest in the court, nearest the widdie.
Keeping silence won't get you to court.
The lawsuit of a fool keeps the court all day.
At the king's court every one for himself.
The more you court a clown the statelier he grows.
There is no example for an unjust court.
In his decision the judge with seven reasons gives only one in court.
Female quarrels breed court cases.
The crab instructs its young: "Walk straight ahead - like me.”.
If you come near the river, you will hear the crab cough.
A crab does not beget a bird.
A lame crab walks straight.
Until a crab finds itself in a very hot pot of soup, it will never understand that water can be both cold and hot.
When crab walk too much him lose him claw.
If you didn't catch anything when fishing, then a crab is a fish.
Let the crab take counsel with its leg.
As a crab walks, so walk its children.
It's by following his friends that a crab lost its hiding place.
The hole the crab digs takes on the shape of its shell.
If you live by the river you can hear the crab cough.
Walk straight, my son – as the old crab said to the young crab.
The crab that walks miles too far will fall into the pot.
The crab that walks too far falls into the pot.
The crab has stuck fast between the stones at the entrance of its hole.
The crab would catch the hare!
You cannot make a crab walk straight.
God is good, but not crazy.
Of doctor and crazy, we all have a little.
To a crazy ship every wind is contrary.
What can a cat do if its master is crazy.
A crazy father and mother make sensible children.
A crazy vessel never falls from the hand.
A crazy man can be recognized not by his words, but by his actions.
May the crazy not die to make people laugh.
If you never climb Mt. Fuji, you're a fool, and if you climb it more than once, you're a crazy fool.
He who loves thinks that the others are blind; the others think that he is crazy.
Crazy wheels run longest.
A fox distances itself from a crazy pup.
Luck is the friend of jackasses and the crazy; it's a mortal enemy of the virtuous.
Who insists on running up a slope, is confused and crazy.
If you prune in March you're either a jackass or crazy.
All of us are crazy in one way or another.
We're all a little crazy in one way or another.
Not all men who walk in the street naked are crazy.
Butter is crazy three times a year, when it's too hard, too soft and then when there's no butter at all.
A fly does not mind dying in coconut cream.
She would drink the cream and say the cat she had was an old rogue.
Whoever is fond of cream should should take the cow around with him.
Cream doesn't rise to the top, it works its way up.
The cat with cream on her whiskers should have a good excuse ready.
It's easy to trust a cat once you put the cream out of reach.
Cream always rises to the top.
Put cream and sugar on a fly and it tastes very much like a black raspberry.
It is not well for a man to pray cream and live skim milk.
One should not send a cat to deliver cream.
Who burned himself with hot milk blows on ice cream.
The cat shuts its eyes when stealing cream.
There are more ways of killing a cat than choking it with cream.
There will be no cream from that spoiled milk.
A girl with a golden cradle doesn't remain long in her father's house.
Man learns from the cradle to the grave.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the nation and its destiny.
What is learned in the cradle lasts to the grave.
Homely in the cradle, pretty at the table.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
If you rock the cradle empty, then you shall have babies plenty.
Seek education from the cradle to the grave.
Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave.
Marriage would be beautiful if it weren't for cradle rocking.
From the cradle to the tomb, Not all gladness, not all gloom.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
Homely in the cradle, pretty at the table.
Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave.
What is learned in the cradle is carried to the grave.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
It is easier to cover our feet with sandals than to cover the earth with carpets.
You cannot cover up the sun with a sieve.
If you enter the city of the blind, cover your eyes.
He who in under cover when it rains is a great fool if he stirs.
It is easier to put leather on the soles of one's feet than cover the world with leather.
Clothes cover up character.
The earth will cover the doctor's mistakes.
Cover up the pot, there's an eel in it.
The night forms a cover for sinners.
Cover up the good you do - do like the nile and conceal your sources.
Cover your candle, it will light more.
Cover your head, and not cover your bottom.
Never judge the book by it's cover.
Never judge a book by its cover.
Cover the back of an image of Buddha with gold leaf.
Chestnut horses and surly men can't even cover expenses.
Like pot, like cover.
What use to cover a mend in the Mona Lisa with a crayon.
Build with silver and cover with gold.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
Cover the ears and steal the bell.
A woman is like a blanket: If you cover yourself with it, it bothers you; if you throw it aside you will feel the cold.
You can never tell what's in a package by its cover.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
It is not the clothes that count, but the things the clothes cover.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
Who would be rich, must keep his soul under cover of his cash-box.
Don't try to cover the whole sky with the palm of your hand.
Who takes cover under the branch, collects what rains and collects what falls.
Cover a dog bite with fur.
There is no pot so bad but finds it cover.
The dog gets into the mill under cover of the ass.
Who steals the minaret will have a cover ready.
There is no pot so ugly but finds its cover.
The old wife, if she does not serve for a pot, serves for a cover.
The goat can't well cover herself with her tail.
Do not judge the book by its cover.
Let's sing a song from the book with glass cover.
Where there is no jealousy a small hare's leather is enough to cover four people.
The more you try to cover things up, the more exposed they will be.
Every pot has its cover.
When the man is away, the monkey eats his corn and goes into his hut.
If you are going to go where corn grows, take a cutting tool with you.
One who keeps saying 'I will listen and obey' will be cooked with the corn cob.
A blind chicken will often find an ear of corn.
The farmer grows the corn, but the bear eats it.
So not roast all your corn in the winter.
You can tell a ripe corn by its look.
Plough your furrows deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
The corn that is taken to a bad mill. will be badly ground.
The ass carries corn to the mill, and gets thistles.
The king's chaff is better than other folk's corn.
The ass dead, the corn at his tail.
Much straw and little corn.
There is plenty of corn in Castile, but he who has none, starves.
A little fire burns up a great deal of corn.
A man does not wander far from where his corn is roasting.
See a sheaf of corn in the morning and a young woman in the evening.
When jackass smell corn, ‘im gallop.
No corn without chaff.
To hang your sickle on another man's corn.
If you are planning to travel where corn grows, you should take a sickle with you.
The fewer the donkeys, the more ears of corn.
If your corn field is far from your home, the birds will eat your corn.
If your cornfield is far from your house, the birds will eat your corn.
When planning for a year, plant corn. When planning for a decade, plant trees. When planning for life, train and educate people.
The corn is not choked by the weeds but by the negligence of the farmer.
If your cornfield is far from your house, the birds will eat your corn.
A corn swallowed by a fowl will never germinate in its belly.
Calm weather in June, sets the corn in tune.
Hunger finds no fault with moldy corn.
A full ear of corn will bend its head; an empty ear will stand upright.
Don't care lost his corn patch.
More corn grows in crooked rows.
The more furrows the more corn.
The corn will bend but it still ends up in the mill.
A greedy mill grinds all kinds of corn.
Good corn is not reaped from a bad field.
Take not your sickle to another man's corn.
If the brain sows not corn, it plants thistles.
No house without a mouse, no barn without corn, no rose without a thorn.
Praise the ripe field, not the green corn.
A barley corn is better than a diamond to a cock.
It is easy to collect ears of corn under, beside a stack.
The best parents are both purses for money and sacks for the corn.
He that soweth good seed shall reap good corn.
In much corn is some cockle.
Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn.
Carrick for a man, kyle for a coo, cunningham for corn and ale, and a galloway for woo'.
Corn him well he'll work the better.
It's ill takkin corn frae geese.
A farmer does not conclude by the mere look of it that a corn is unripe; he tears it open for examination.
You cannot roast corn with two eyes.
The heaviest ear of corn bends its head lowest.
If fools ate no bread, corn would be cheap.
Barren corn makes bitter bread.
Two sparrows on the same ear of corn are not long friends.
Two sparrows upon one ear of corn make ill agreement.
A blind hen can sometimes find her corn.
Very good corn grows in little fields.
Two sparrows on one ear of corn never agree.
The brain, that sows not corn, plants thistles.
Never spread your corn to dry before the door of a saintly man.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
Lizard no plant corn but him hab plenty.
You think you are strong like the corn plant, yet the bean vine is already choking you.
When planning for a year, plant corn. When planning for a decade, plant trees. When planning for life, train and educate people.
Measure the corn of others with your own bushel.
A little fire burns up a great deal of corn.
He has eaten his corn in the blade.
A king's chaff is worth more than other men's corn.
Learn to creep before you run.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
Candour once went further boldly and in smiles, but it crept home in tatters and tears.
Where you cannot climb over, you must creep under.
A child must creep until it learns to walk.
Look before you leap, For snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
A bairn must creep ere he gang.
Kindnesse will creep where it may not gang.
He must have crept out of hell while the devil was asleep.
A child must first creep, then go.
One cannot count on riches.
Imitate the sundial's ways, count only the pleasant days.
They don't count the teeth of a gift horse.
Don't count what they get - they count what they don't get.
Many people count other people's faults and ignore their own.
You can count the apples on a tree but you can't count the trees from one apple.
Always count the cost.
With a bottle and a girl one does not count the hours.
It is better to work in your own land than to count your money abroad.
Whoever seeds fava beans without using fertilizer, shouldn't count on having much to eat.
Before you start up a ladder, count the rungs.
It's the little things in life that count.
He who plants fruit-trees, must not count upon the fruit.
One by one we count the beans.
Count your blessings, not your problems.
Don't count your chicken before they hatch.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
Count the skins of badgers which haven't been caught.
Happy people never count hours as they pass.
If you decide to dress up a lizard you should count for its tail.
When a greek shakes your hand, count your fingers after.
After shaking hands with a greek, count your fingers.
It is not the clothes that count, but the things the clothes cover.
Count no man successful until he is dead.
Don't count your chickens before they've hatched.
Count not your chickens before they are hatched.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
Do not count your chicken before they are hatched.
Who builds something, had better count two dollars for one.
Count again is not forbidden.
Count not your chickens before they are hatched.
Count siller after a' your kin.
People count the refusals, do not count the gifts.
When a thief kisses you, count your teeth.
People count the faults of those who keep them waiting.
I don't count them to you, wife, but a hog makes twelve puddings.
If someone cannot even keep his own secrets, don't count on him to keep someone else's.
You count the sand.
In prosperity you may count on many friends; if the sky becomes overcast you will be alone.
When a friend asks, tomorrow does not count.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
If you think you have someone eating out of your hands, it is a good idea to count your fingers.
One cannot count on riches.
Long fingers count out money.
Don't count the teeth of a gift horse.
A starving donkey does not count the blows.
They that bourd with cats maun count upo' scarts. Thistles are a sailed for asses.
One [should] count chicks in autumn.
Courage mounteth with occasion.
Courage cannot be bought at the inn.
Courage is illusion, balance is the best we can get.
The world goes as men make it go; and men are free to make it go otherwise, if they have the courage.
An army is driven back by courage and not by insults, however many.
Behind every sweaty face of a cattle rustler is a story of determination and courage.
The fox will catch you with cunning, and the wolf with courage.
Despair gives courage to a coward.
Great things are done more through courage than through wisdom.
The man of courage never lost it.
You cannot discover new oceans unless you have the courage to lose sight of the shore.
Let him not be a lover who has not courage.
One with the courage to laugh is master of the world almost as much as the one who is ready to die.
Who has no courage must have legs.
When you have no choice, mobilize the spirit of courage.
True courage is knowing how to suffer.
Avoiding danger is not cowardice. Courage without discretion is no good.
Fortune lost, nothing lost; courage lost, much lost; honour lost, more lost; soul lost, all lost.
His courage oozed out at his fingers' ends.
Alertness and courage are life's shield.
A beard is a symbol of courage.
Have the courage to admit your mistakes.
There is neither wisdom nor courage in an empty belly.
Courage is not the same as fighting someone stronger than you.
There are three friends in this world: courage, sense, and insight.
Young courage and old caution are a strong pair.
Without justice, courage is weak.
Happiness is a form of courage.
Have the courage not to adopt another's courage.
It requires more courage not to fight than to fight.
Courage is fear that has said its prayers.
Fortune can take away riches but not courage.
One man with courage is a majority.
A man of courage never wants weapons.
Might and courage require wit in their suite.
To call war the soil of courage and virtue is like calling debauchery the soil of love.
Courage is a kingdom without a crown.
Courage is the father of success.
Alertness and courage are life's shield.
Courage wins over sickness.
It's not so terrible when you lose money, but when courage is lost, all is lost.
Courage is often caused by fear.
Rage avails less than courage.
For whom sword and courage are not enough, corslet and lance will not be enough.
Hope gives strength and courage, and saves an otherwise dying man from his grave.
You can't learn courage.
The little ant at its hole is full of courage.
It requires more courage not to fight than to fight.
Without justice, courage is weak.
Wealth lost, something lost; honor lost, much lost; courage lost, all lost.
You can wait till the cows come home.
In the darkness all cows are black.
Cows do not indulge in horseplay.
'tis well that wicked cows have short horns.
Cows forget that they were calves.
Old cows like young grass.
Nobody will plough the land except its cows.
Night brings the cows home.
Black cows give white milk.
Cows have no business in horseplay.
Dogs bark and cows chew grass.
Two poor cows does make up good dung.
He who likes to eat cows hump will not fail to grow fat.
Cursed cows have short horns.
Cows can catch no rabbits.
You can't take a cow from a man who has no cows.
Even ill-natured cows give milk.
The bailiff's cow and another's cow are two different cows.
The gentle calf sucks all the cows.
The headache is mine and the cows are ours.
Plow with the oxen and seed with the cows at their own pace.
When hitting the horn of a single cow, the horns of a thousand cows hurt.
In the morning potatoes, in the daytime potatoes and when the cows return in the evening it's potatoes again.
Let every one mind his own business, and the cows will be well tended.
The criticism of a blind man.
The unborn baby that fears criticism will never be born.
The person who is always criticizing others is usually the one who deserves criticism the most.
Criticism of the brave is behind his back.
All authors should prepare to encounter criticism.
Criticism is something you can avoid by saying nothing, doing nothing, and being nothing.
The most destructive criticism is indifference.
Criticism is easy but it does not create.
Really to stop criticism one must die.
The most destructive criticism is indifference.
Criticism of the state is all right, but don't forget the nation is you.
I am not a critic; to me criticism is so often nothing more than the eye garrulously denouncing the shape of the peephole that gives access to hidden treasure.
The coward sweats in water.
A coward is full of precaution.
If you spit in the face of a coward he'll tell you that it's raining.
In the home of the coward they laugh while in the home of the brave they cry.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times.
Coward against coward, the assailant conquers.
The brave man lives until the coward wants.
A brave man dies but once, a coward many times.
A bully is always a coward.
Despair gives courage to a coward.
the destiny of a coward comes from over him.
One coward makes ten.
It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead the rest of your life.
Necessity and opportunity may make a coward valiant.
Strength avails not a coward.
Coward people have no country of their own.
Being careful is not being a coward.
Even over cold pudding, the coward says: "it will burn my mouth.”.
The coward shoots with shut eyes.
I refuse to fight does not mean I am a coward.
Tears never flow in the house of a coward.
One who does what he says is not a coward.
A coward always hides behind someone else after he has thrown a stone.
A brave man dies but once, a coward many times.
Put a coward to his metal an' he'll fight the de'il.
The coward falls.
Better be a coward than foolhardy.
Tis better to be a coward than fool-hardie.
Fortune smiles on the brave, and frowns upon the coward.
A brave dies but once - a coward many times.
A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times.
A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times.
The coward is always in danger.
A coward often deals a mortal blow to the brave.
Find a cruel man and you see a coward.
Who sits down is a cripple.
The cripple is always the one to open the dancing.
Wealth can give legs to the cripple, beauty to the ugly, and sympathy to tears.
It's better to be a cripple than always sitting down.
He who mocks the cripple should be straight himself.
When the moon is shining the cripple becomes hungry for a walk.
A centipede will not stop for a cripple.
The cripple is fair in its mother's eyes.
He who laughs at a cripple will not die without becoming himself.
In the land of the cripple everyone thinks he walks straight.
A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.
A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.
He that dwells next door to a cripple will learn to halt.
He that mocks a cripple, ought to be whole.
The liar is sooner caught than the cripple.
Punishment is a cripple, but it arrives.
When the moon is shining the cripple becomes hungry for a walk.
By chance a cripple may catch a hare.
Tap even a stone bridge before crossing.
When you are crossing over a river you might be eaten by crocodiles, but don't let yourself get bitten by the little fish.
Once deep pools, now a crossing place.
Don't change horses while crossing a stream.
Never swap horses crossing a stream.
He who goes to Our Lady of Muxima with an evil heart risks being drowned crossing the river to get there.
When the crocodile says that the river crossing is deep you must believe it.
A buddha made of mud crossing a river cannot protect even himself.
Be careful of your enemy once and of your friend a thousand times, for a double crossing friend knows more evil.
Living life is not like crossing a meadow.
You do not swap horses while crossing the ford.
Don't swap horses when crossing the stream.
Whoever sows within the vineyard, neither reaps a crop nor harvests grapes.
Good seed makes a good crop.
Grain by grain the hen fills her crop.
Our neighbour's crop is always more fruitful and his cattle produce more milk than our own.
One rain does not make a crop.
A good harvest does not grow with ease; the more diligent the farmer, the more bountiful the crop.
When brothers quarrel, take a hoe and go and dig; and when they make it up, take a basket and patter the crop.
If you want a crop for one year, grow grain; if you want a crop for ten years, grow a tree; if you want a crop for a hundred years, grow men.
Buying on credit is robbing next year's crop.
A dry year still produces a harvestable crop.
The poor man has his crop destroyed by hail every year.
You reap the crop of another.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
It is the pot that boils but the dish that gets the credit.
Whoever drinks on credit gets drunk more quickly.
Credit is better than wealth.
A pig on credit makes a good winter and a bad spring.
Sweet tongues buy horses on credit.
Do not judge a man by the whiteness of his turbin, soap is bought on credit.
If we blame others for our failures, then we should also give others credit for our successes.
Give credit where credit is due.
He that has lost his credit is dead to the world.
Eat fire and your mouth burn; live on credit and your pride will burn.
A ragged coat finds little credit.
Credit lost is like a broken looking-glass.
Credit is dead, bad pay killed it.
Every one gives himself credit for more brains than he has, and less money.
Nothing seems expensive on credit.
Give credit where credit is due.
If you want to keep your credit you must use it as little as possible.
A pig bought on credit grunts all the year.
He who drinks on credit, gets drunk twice.
Hitherto I gave you credit for having horns.
Only fools seek credit from the achievements of their ancestors.
It is foolish for someone to seek credit for his ancestor's achievements.
Credit is suspicion asleep.
Religion, credit, and the eye are not to be touched.
The first will get the credit, even if the second is better.
The belly gives no credit.
The English always credit the rest of us with the qualities they don't need themselves.
Give credit where credit is due.
He who is without debt is without credit.
More credit is given to the eyes than to the ears.
If the pupil is smart, the teacher gets the credit.
To-morrow we will credit it, not to-day.
Many words, little credit.
The credit got by a lie lasts only till the truth comes out.
Eat fire and your mouth will burn live on credit and your pride will burn.
If we blame others for our failures, then we should also give others credit for our successes.
Credit keeps the crown of the causey.
Follow the customs or flee the country.
Negotiate a river by following its bends, enter a country by following its customs.
Learning means loving the country.
Govern a country as you would roast a crocodile on a spit.
The tar of my country is better than the honey of others.
The stones of my native country are warmer than the ovens of Babylon.
If the farmer is poor then so is the whole country.
Who changes country changes luck.
A country without freedom is like a prisoner with shackled hands.
The clown is best in his own country, and the gentleman anywhere.
The king inherits a country - the people only hard work.
When you are looking for a country with no tombstones you will find yourself in the land of cannibals.
Any visitor to the country who drinks from the river bengo will never want to leave.
Destroy a country, but its mountains and rivers remain.
The mud of one country is the medicine of another.
The country rooster dows not crow in the town.
He builds a castle by demolishing a country.
Where'er an ass is crown'd to fame, both town and country bear the shame.
Every country is a fatherland.
In a treeless country, the castor-oil plant is a big tree.
In the country of the blind the one eyed man is king.
By lamplight every country wench seems handsome.
In the country of the blind blessed is he that hath one eye.
It's a free country.
Coward people have no country of their own.
If you are travelling in the blind man's country close one eye.
Smoke in your own country is purer than fire in a foreign land.
One-eye man a king a blind country.
Fighting for your country glorifies death.
A good citizen owes his life to his country.
A drop of water in the eyes of the Tsar costs the country many handkerchiefs.
Every country has its custom.
The smoke of our own country is brighter than fire abroad.
Where freedom is, there shall my country be.
The skin creaks according to the country.
The hyena of your own country does not break your bones.
The prosperity of a country is in accordance with its treatment of the aged.
There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country.
To lie about a far country is easy.
You cant be in the town and be in the country too.
The zawan of your own country is better than the wheat of strangers.
The destroyer of a country is a citizen of that country.
He who enjoys the first fruit of a country is son of that country.
A country can be conquered from the back of a horse but may not be ruled in the same manner.
The country is in ruins, and there are still mountains and rivers.
The country where flowers are expensive lacks the foundation of culture.
On entering a country, ask what is forbidden, on entering a village, ask what are the customs, on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned.
It is better to save your innocence at the cost of your honor, than to save your country at the cost of your life.
Going into a country the first time, ask what is forbidden; on entering a village, ask what are the customs; on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned.
Gold rain drops on a foreign country,wherelse rain of stones drops on our country,but our country is better.
The turtle lays thousands of eggs without anyone knowing, but when the hen lays an egg, the whole country is informed.
If one comes to a fork of the road in a strange country, she stops to think.
An honest citizen is an exile in his own country.
Loving your country is pious.
A clever man's inheritance is found in every country.
Where is well with me, there is my country.
In a flat country a hillock thinks itself a mountain.
The good cow gets sold in its own country.
A new doctor is a plague on the country.
Dress up a country bumpkin and he looks like a baron.
If Messina had gardens Palermo would be a bunch of poor country houses.
When you have left a country, you have left everyone.
No man is a prophet in his own country.
For God and our country.
That country will I call mine which supports me, not that which gave me birth.
Our country, right or wrongǃ (Stephen Decatur)
A wise man cannot save a decaying country as manure cannot save an eroding land.
Public before private and country before family.
To meet an old friend in a distant country is like the delight of rain after a long drought.
Ask not what your country can do for you ask what you can do for your country.
Every country has its customs.
Follow the customs, or fly the country.
When you have left a country, you have left everyone.
Nobody is a prophet in his own country.
A prophet has no honour in his own country.
It is sweet and meritorious to die for one's country.
Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
Those who counsel do not pay.
A fool may sometimes give a wise man counsel.
Counsel is irksome when the matter is past remedy.
Take counsel before it goes ill, lest it go worse.
Counsel before action.
Counsel is as welcome to him as a shoulder of mutton to a sick horse.
Keep your counsel arrested until it's requested.
Just as a bamboo cane forms a round jet of water, so taking counsel together makes men of one mind.
Keep counsel of thyself first.
Like counsellor, like counsel.
Women's counsel is cold.
The healthful man can give counsel to the sick.
To give counsel to a fool is like throwing water on a goose.
Everybody knows good counsel except him who has need of it.
An angry man heeds no counsel.
Fools sometimes give wise men counsel.
A resolute heart endures no counsel.
Counsel is nothing against love.
Given counsel is all the same hard to take.
The strength of the old is their ready counsel.
That grief is light which is capable of counsel.
He that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
Of hasty counsel take good heed, for haste is very rarely speed.
A fool may give a wise man counsel.
Precaution said, Good friend, this counsel keep: strip not yourself until you're laid to sleep.
A fool sometimes gives good counsel.
A determined heart will not be counselled.
Let the crab take counsel with its leg.
Keep your own counsel.
The night brings counsel.
Give neither counsel or salt till you are asked for it.
The counsel you would have another keep, first keep yourself.
The spirits are the strength and counsel to the living.
Lucky men need no counsel.
The wise man keeps his own counsel.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
Examine well the counsel that favours your desire.
Не that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
Counsel after action is like rain after harvest.
Good counsel never comes too late.
Good counsel comes over night.
When the old dog barks, he gives counsel.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
The counsel thou wouldst have another keep, first keep it thyself.
Two may keep counsel if one be away.
Counsel is nae command.
They that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
Often has wise counsel comes from a fool's head.
Be friendly with everyone and counsel with few.
An enemy may chance to give good counsel.
He knows enough who knows how to live and keep his own counsel.
In love and war don't seek counsel.
Though you are a prudent old man, do not despise counsel.
The counsel of the aged is sound.
You are his father by nature, I by counsel.
Take counsel of your pillow.
Advise and counsel him; if he does not listen, let adversity teach him.
Counsel is no command.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1044)
Comes time, comes counsel.
Night brings counsel.
The wrong-headed fool, who refuses counsel, will come to grief.
If a counsel were a good thing, it wouldn't be given, but sold.
The wise man keeps his own counsel.
Take counsel of your pillow.
Seek counsel of him who makes you weep, and not of him who makes you laugh.
The night brings counsel.
Night is the mother of counsel.
Three may keep counsel if twa be away.
When the old dog barks, it gives counsel.
Good counsel may come too late to be of help.
He that gives bad counsel suffers most by it.
A crowd is like a smoldering log which can spark into a flame at any time.
Not to be considered queer conform to the crowd.
Two's company, three's a crowd.
A crowd is not company.
If you meet a red-haired woman, you'll meet a crowd.
The crowd is not led by the head but by the heart.
Cross in a crowd and the crocodile won't eat you.
He who who flings a stone amid a crowd, does not know the it hits.
A tiger cannot beat a crowd of monkeys.
A crowd is not company.
Advice given in the midst of a crowd is loathsome.
He who follows the crowd has many companions.
A hard-working man is worth more than a crowd of loafers.
A hardworking man is better than a crowd of loafers.
Gold attracts a crowd.
Crowd around for the getting, move out of the way when it's time to pay.
Two is a company; three is a crowd.
A born leader sees which way the crowd is going and steps in ahead.
Man is the head and woman is the crown upon it.
A worthy woman is the crown of her husband.
That crown is well spent which saves you ten.
At Caltagirone a hairy conscience and a crown with fifteen places.
No cross, no crown.
A crown is no cure for the headache.
The end is the crown of any work.
Destiny often withholds the crown from the very person who deserves it.
After the evil cross the crown has come.
He who goes not into battle cannot wear a crown.
A crown is no cure for the headache.
Courage is a kingdom without a crown.
A good wife is the crown of the house.
Truth and honesty keep the crown o' the causey.
If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings.
Happy the house in which there is no shaven crown.
Youth is a crown of roses, old age a crown of willows.
If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings.
Arrogance is a kingdom without a crown.
From the crown of our head to the sole of our foot.
The royal crown cures not the headache.
Better a laying Hen nor a lyin Crown.
Poverty is not a crime, but it's better not to show it.
Commit a sin twice and it will not seem a crime.
The crime accuses itself.
What greater crime than loss of time?
Crime doesn't pay.
It's no crime to steal from a thief.
Simplicity is worse than thievery (crime).
It's a crime if you get caught.
The act itself does not constitute a crime, unless the intent be criminal.
In times of trouble, leniency becomes crime.
The greatest crime in a desert is to find water and keep silent about it.
A newly committed crime awakens sleeping ones.
What greater crime than loss of time?
It is the crime that causes the shame, and not the punishment.
Poverty is not a crime.
If lying were a capital crime, the hangman would work overtime.
Punishment awaits crime.
Justice is exercised in the proper prevention, rather than in the severe punishment, of crime.
Poverty is not a crime.
Crime does not pay.
The greater the man, the greater the crime.
A crime eats its own child.
It's no crime to steal from a thief.
Wood may remain ten years in the water, but it will never become a crocodile.
Govern a country as you would roast a crocodile on a spit.
If you live in the river you should make friends with the crocodile.
There's a crocodile in every big river.
No matter how long a log floats on the river, it will never be a crocodile.
A starving crocodile is never pleasant.
A young crocodile does not cry when he falls in the water.
Even if a log lies in the water for a long time, it does not become a crocodile.
The power of the crocodile is in the water.
If the fish comes out of the river to tell you that the crocodile has one eye, you should believe it.
Escape from a tiger to be eaten by a crocodile.
Teach a crocodile to swim.
The strength of the crocodile is in the water.
Cross in a crowd and the crocodile won't eat you.
Love is a crocodile in the river of desire.
Do not insult a crocodile while your feet are still in the water.
When the crocodile says that the river crossing is deep you must believe it.
Only when you have crossed the river, can you say the crocodile has a lump on his snout.
A canoe peddler doesn't tell the crocodile he has along snout until he's crossed the river.
The smaller the lizard the greater the hope of becoming a crocodile.
No matter how much you feed a lizard it cannot become a crocodile.
When the river dries up, we will all see where the crocodile sleeps.
The crocodile does not die under the water so that we can call the monkey to celebrate its funeral.
The crocodile drinks from the same river as the centipede.
The crocodile does not die under the water so that we can call the monkey to celebrate its funeral.
Only when you have crossed the river, can you say the crocodile.
Do not speak badly of a crocodile when your leg is in the river.
No matter how long a fallen tree stays in the river it can never be a crocodile.
Only when you have crossed the river, can you say the crocodile has a lump on his snout.
You should not have enmity with the crocodile if you are living in the water.
The heart of a servant that is not beaten is full of curses.
A thousand curses never tore a shirt.
Better to hear curses than to be pitied.
Curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
Curses are like chickens, they always come home.
One who curses someone in public, brings it on himself in private.
When a man curses his own child it is a terrible thing.
A hen's curses have never killed the eagle.
Curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
Curses are like young chickens, And still come home to roost.
Curses are like chickens; they come home to roost.
Curses are like processions: they return to whence they set out.
Better be a cursed man than he who curses.
Undeserved curses don't bite a lot.
If a person who curses another is not better than the person he curses, a request is never made of him to rescind the curse.
Curses: like chaff, who throws them, catches them.
Drive the horse with oats, not with curses and oaths.
Curses are like young chickens,
And still come home to roost!
Negotiate a river by following its bends, enter a country by following its customs.
With customs we live well, but laws undo us.
The countries you visit, the customs you find.
Each country's customs are different, just as each meadow's grass is different.
Every community has its own customs and traditions.
Obey the customs of the village you enter.
On entering a country, ask what is forbidden, on entering a village, ask what are the customs, on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned.
Going into a country the first time, ask what is forbidden; on entering a village, ask what are the customs; on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned.
National customs are national honours.
So many countries, so many customs.
Customs are stronger than laws.
So many houses, so many customs.
What he gains at the toll, loses at the customs.
Other times, other customs.
Every country has its customs.
Follow the customs, or fly the country.
So many countries, so many customs.
Crows are black everywhere.
The young rooster crows as he hears the old one.
A dove has no place amongst the crows.
There is little peace in that house where the hen crows and the cock is mute.
Daughters are no better than crows.
Crows bewail the dead sheep, and then eat them.
Crows are never the whiter for washing themselves.
As the old cock crows, so does the young.
An eloquent cock crows as soon as it comes out of the egg.
Old crows are hard to catch.
Pigeons are taken when crows fly at pleasure.
As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.
Crows do not peck out crow's eyes.
The chicken that crows the loudest does not always give the biggest eggs.
Crows are black the world over.
Every cock crows on his own dunghill.
He whoa breeds crows, will have his eyes taken out- you harvest what you planted.
Where the rooster crows there is a village.
Love for a person must extend to the crows on his roof.
Where the rooster crows there is a village.
A dead cock never crows.
The cock belongs to one household, but when it crows it is heard in the whole village.
When the eagle is dead, the crows pick out his eyes.
As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.
On the first of march, the crows begin to search.
The cock often crows without a victory.
When a dove begins to associate with crows its feathers remain white but its heart grows black.
As the old cock crows so crows the young.
When among the crows, caw as the crows do.
When you are amongst the crows, caw like them.
Crows weep for the dead lamb then devour him.
For lack of hens the fox catches crows.
It's a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock.
A good rooster crows everywhere.
When the wolf grows old the crows ride him.
As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.
Every rooster crows in its own pen.
The cock that crows at the wrong time is killed.
The head of the rooster that crows out of time will be cut off.
Crows will not pick out crows eyes.
Against a thousand crows one stone is enough.
Crows with crows and ravens with ravens.
When the rooster crows off the hour, don't hesitate to adjust the time.
Woe to the house where the hen crows and the rooster is still.
The fox will catch you with cunning, and the wolf with courage.
Cunning men deal in generalizations.
The devil is cunning.
Poverty is cunning; it catches even a fox.
Cunning surpasses strength.
Cunning men's cloaks sometimes fall.
The fox can lose his fur but not his cunning.
It needs a cunning hand to shave a fool's head.
The fox may lose his hair, but not his cunning.
Even if you are cunning, you will not tie water up in a bale of grass.
Even if you are cunning, you will not tie water up in a bale of grass.
Cunning comes to an end, what remains is folly.
Never does a woman lie in a more cunning way than when she tells the truth to someone who doesn't believe her.
Cunning is the ape of wisdom.
Fraud and cunning are the weapons of the weak.
Often, under the unseeing hide the cunning.
There's cunning in a pointed chin.
The cunning wife makes her husband her apron.
A cunning man likes the company of a fool.
The most cunning are the first caught.
Cunning is superior to strength.
The fox loves cunning, the wolf covets the lamb, and a woman longs for praise.
Cunning better than strong.
The bad head does not give rest to the legs, and the cunning ass does not give rest to the legs, arms, or head.
The cunning men do not deal with each other.
Cunning has little honour.
Cunning and wise as an old fox.
A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed.
Kill a cow to donate shoes.
I own a cow in heaven, but I cannot drink her milk.
A cow that has no tail should not try to chase away flies.
It is easier to milk a cow that stands still.
Only when the tree is big and strong can you tether a cow to it.
He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow.
It is better to be a bull for a year than a cow for a hundred years.
Better to drink the milk than to eat the cow.
Communism is a cow of many; well milked and badly fed.
Cow of many - well milked and badly fed.
Her horns are too heavy for the cow.
Harrow before the cow.
Forgetting the cow, when going out to plough.
The cow steps on the calf, but she does not hate it.
What a cow eats a calf drinks.
The cow must graze where she is tied.
They have taken the cow by the horns in order to milk it better.
A bull went to impregnate a cow, and he came back a fetus.
A cow is not oppressed by its own hump.
A single hand can not slaughter a cow.
Milk belongs to the cow, but the bull cow gets the publicity.
While the butchers were arguing, the cow dropped dead.
No matter how much milk a cow has, you cannot milk butter from it.
He that bulls the cow must keep the calf.
They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow.
Who steals a calf, steals a cow.
What should a cow do with a nutmeg?
The cow gives milk through her mouth.
Go to law for a sheep and lose your cow.
It is not till the cow has lost her tail, that she discovers its value.
The cow licks no strange calf.
‘Every man to his fancy, and me to my own fancy,' said the old woman when she kissed her cow.
It is often that a cow does not take after its breed.
Everyone is nice until the cow gets into the garden.
A man of one cow – a man of no cow.
The day will come when the cow will have use for her tail.
To every cow its calf; to every book its copy.
Where comes a cow the wiseman lay down, there follows a woman, and where comes a woman follows trouble.
Milk the cow, but do not pull off the udder.
God takes care of a blind cow.
He who wants milk should not sit in the middle of a field and wait for a cow to back up to him.
It is idle to swallow the cow and choke on the tail.
Whoever is fond of cream should should take the cow around with him.
When mother cow is cropping grass, her young one watches her mouth.
It is difficult to teach a cow to climb a tree.
To love a cow, tie it up; To love a child, hit him/her.
Mi come here fi drink milk, mi noh come here fi count cow.
Man hab cow him look fi milk.
You nebber see kicking' cow widout kickin'calf.
I cow dod did know how him troat hole ton him wouldn't chance pear seed.
Better a goat that can give milk than a cow that cannot.
The malicious cow disturbs the whole herd.
The old cow forgets that she was once a calf.
Rather a man without a cow for the summer than without a wife for christmas night.
Before you milk a cow tie it up.
Milk the cow, but don't pull off the udder.
He who recovers but the tail of his cow does not lose all.
First the stable, then the cow.
God does not give horns to a cow that likes to gore.
Overseas, a cow a quarter of kopeck, but a rouble to ship.
Cow dung can't be gathered where no cow has been.
If it is to be luck, the bull may as well calve as the cow.
The cow has no owner.
To win a dispute is to gain a chicken and lose a cow.
Ain't no use askin' the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
A black cow also gives white milk.
The goat is not big in a cow town.
The tail of the cow watches to the right and left.
Wuh ever in de ‘ole cow in de kiddle.
When yuh ain't got horse, ride cow.
The cow drinks water and it turns to milk; the snake drinks water and it turns to poison.
Going to law is losing a cow for the sake of a cat.
Win a cat and lose a cow -- the consequence of litigation.
A cow without a tail should not try to chase away flies.
The cow engenders the man.
Only when a tree has grown can you tie your cow to it.
The horns cannot be too heavy for the cow that bears them.
It is only a stupid cow that rejoices at the prospect of being taken to a beautiful abattoir.
He who has got experience can milk a running cow.
There's no use asking the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
Don't buy a cow to get a glass of milk.
The cow has forgotten she was once a calf.
Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?
Many a good cow has an evil calf.
Why pay for the cow when the milk is free?
A little dog, a cow without horns, and a short man, are generally proud.
Better one cow in peace than seven in trouble.
A dog will not make himself look like a horse just by cutting off his tail.
When you see that someone is cutting your neighbor's beard, start wetting yours.
You don't kill a gypsy by cutting him in ten pieces -- you only make ten more gypsies.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring, a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not.
A Portuguese apprentice who can't sew, yet would be cutting out.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring; a cut may heal but the cut of the tongue does not.
You learn how to cut down trees cutting them down.
Cutting off a mule's ears doesn't make it a horse.
It is no use cutting a stick when the fight is over.
Cutting the ears of a mule will not make him a horse.
To cut into another's man's ear is like cutting into a felt hat.
Cutting by the tongue is different from cutting by the knife.
The son does not cut his finger in cutting meat for his father.
To condemn by a cutting laugh comes easily to all.
By slitting the ears and cutting the tail, a dog is still a dog, not a horse, not an ass.
A bad knife cuts one's finger instead of the stick.
The day cuts off the promise of the night.
It is a good file that cuts iron without making a noise.
The tongue is not steel, yet it cuts.
Although he comes and cuts me down, I'll grow next spring.
The fool cuts himself with his own knife.
Diamond cuts diamond.
Good people have set sail to arrive at such gentleness as cuts like diamonds.
To start a fight, one does not bring a knife that cuts but a needle that sews.
Desperate cuts must have desperate cures.
He that cuts above himself, will get splinters in his eye.
He that sits among reeds, cuts pipes when he pleases.
Good company on the road is the shortest of short cuts.
He cuts the tree under himself.
It goes like cuts of a whip.
Time is like a dagger; if you don't cut with it, it cuts you. Go ahead and cut. Be quick before it cuts you.
To engage in conflict, one does not bring a knife that cuts -but a needle that sews.
An orphan cuts his own umbilical cord.
Short cuts are long ways round.
The tongue is not steel, yet it cuts.
Time is like a dagger; if you don't cut with it, it cuts you.
The tongue of a bad friend cuts more than a knife.
Coffee from the top of the cup and chocolate from the bottom.
At the first cup man drinks wine, at the second wine drinks wine, at the third wine drinks man.
A tea cup on the edge of a well.
The devil was good looking at eighteen, and course tea makes a bitter first cup.
How can you put out a fire set on a cart-load of firewood with only a cup of water.
There's many a slip twixt cup and lip.
A full cup must be carried steadily.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
Poison is poison though it comes in a golden cup.
A cup must be bitter that a smile will not sweeten.
Full cup, steady hand.
Better than a banquet somewhere else is a good cup of tea and a bowl of rice at home.
Mistaking the reflection of a bow in a cup for a snake.
It is easier to carry an empty cup than one that is filled to the brim.
There is many a slip ‘twixt cup and lip.
Life is not a cup to be drained, but a measure to be filled.
When the cup is full, carry it even.
Quhen the cup is fullest, bear it evenest.
Noh cup noh brok, noh coffee noh trow weh.
When the cup is fullest it is most difficult to carry.
You drink out of the old cup.
Twixt the cup and the lip there's many a slip.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
The first marriage is a plate of honey, the second a glass of wine, and the third is a cup of poison.
One cup (of liquor) is for health, second one is for fun, third one is for nothing.
The bitter cup we strive to remove from us holds the medicine.
Unless the thunder strikes, a man won't cross himself.
An idiot will cross an ox with an elephant.
A marriage is a procession in which the cross goes first.
Don't cross a bridge until you come to it.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
Life is a bridge. Cross over it, but build no house on it.
Where the hedge is low every one will cross it.
Cross even a stone bridge after you've tested it.
Behind the cross stands the devil.
If the peasant doesn't hear the thunder he won't make the sign of the cross.
Cross the loud river but don't cross the silent one.
Do not kick away the canoe which helped you to cross the river.
A man with a cross eye shall be put to the torch.
We'll cross that bridge when we come to it.
It is better to be kind to our neighbors than to cross the world to offer incense to our ancestors.
Don't cross your bridges before you come to them.
I meant to cross myself and put out one of my eyes.
Everyone thinks his own cross is heaviest.
From the same wood you can make a cross or a club.
Don't cross the brook for water.
Man noh done cross riva, noh fi cuss alligator long mout long.
The devil likes to hide behind a cross.
Every house has its cross.
No cross, no crown.
No house without its cross.
The devil sits behind the cross.
The devil often lurks behind the cross.
If the thunder is not loud, the peasant forgets to cross himself.
The peasant will not cross himself before it begins to thunder.
I thought to cross myself, and I put out my eye.
Cross in a crowd and the crocodile won't eat you.
Don't just cross a river -- cross it bearing fire!
Only he who carries it knows how much the cross weighs.
Eyes can see widely: they can cross a river in full flood.
You can make a mule cross the river but you cant make him drink the water.
Without oars, you cannot cross in a boat.
Eight Immortals cross the sea, each employing his or her theurgy.
Don't cross the bridge until you come to it.
After the evil cross the crown has come.
We'll cross that bridge when we get to it.
Each cross has its own inscription.
We must bear our cross with patience, said the man when he took his wife on his back.
Every one tries to cross the fence where it is lowest.
Both the cross and the gallows are made of wood.
When rogues go in procession the devil carries the cross.
Don't cross the water unless you see the bottom.
Every man has his cross to bear.
one may become the devil's brother in order to cross the bridge.
Don't cross the stream to find water.
There grows nae grass at the market cross.
Don't cross the stream to find water.
Never cross a bridge till you come to it.
The cross on his breast, and the devil in his heart.
The devil hides behind the cross.
Don't cross the stream to get water.
The cross in the chest, but the devil in the facts.
Don't just cross a river--cross it bearing fire.
We'll cross that bridge when we get to it.
The devil lurks behind the cross.
The most difficult mountain to cross is the threshold.
He that bears the cross, blesses himself first.
Don't cross yourself before seeing the Devil.
Never cross a bridge till you come to it.
I thought I had made the sign of the cross -- and I hurt my eye.
Custom and law are sisters.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
Every land to its own custom, every wheel its own spindle.
A custom wears a shirt of iron.
Custom and law are sisters.
Different culture means different custom.
Custom becomes law.
Custom makes all things easy.
Every country has its custom.
Custom is a tyrant.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
Custom is the great guide.
Custom surpasses nature.
Once a use and ever a custom.
Custom is the guide of the ignorant.
Custom without reason is but ancient error.
To circumstances and custom the law must yield.
Break the legs of an evil custom.
It is hard to break a hog of an ill custom.
Custom is a second nature.
Take the custom where you come.
It's a silly pack that may not pay the custom.
Once is no custom.
A cake and a bad custom ought to be broken.
Wherever we live, we must observe the local custom.
Custom is stronger than law.
Custom in infancy becomes nature in old age.
According to the custom of Aragon, good service, bad guerdon.
Each smith has his custom.
A custom wears a shirt of iron.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
Break the legs of an evil custom.
Take the custom where you go (literally, "come").
Each country has its own custom.
Custom becomes law.custom in infancy becomes nature in old age.
Don't curse the darkness, light a candle.
Beauty without virtue is a curse.
The crow was killed by the storm -- "He died by my curse," says the owl.
When a crow is killed by a storm, the fortuneteller says, "He died by my curse."
I curse my son and I hate who says amen.
the curse of the fowl does not bother the kite.
The curse on the hearth wounds the deepest.
When you curse your stepmother, your mother will be the victim.
A curse turns around and strikes the one who uttered it in the face.
Roll me, don't curse me, said the stone to the ploughman.
Curse well.
It is better to walk than curse the road.
From gods that are left alone, there is no curse.
To be able to curse once a day improves happiness and lengthens life.
Curse your wife at evening, sleep alone at night.
Being in the forest and failing to see trees is a curse.
Love of dress is sure the very curse.
Drink is the curse of the land. It makes you fight with your neighbour. It makes you shoot at your landlord – and it makes you miss him.
If a person who curses another is not better than the person he curses, a request is never made of him to rescind the curse.
After taking ninety-nine years to climb a stairway, the tortoise falls and says there is a curse on haste.
If God listened to every shepherd's curse, our sheep would all be dead.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.
It is better to walk than curse the road.
If you curse your wife in the evening, you will sleep alone at night.
There is no worse curse than to desire a man's death.
тяжелое проклятие A light purse is a heavy curse.
A curst cow has short horns.
Live with vultures, and become a vulture; live with crows, and become a crow.
Trumpet in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cocks; bleat in a flock of goats.
A crow will never be a dove.
The crow pecks at the ox to clean it -- not to feed from it.
The crow was killed by the storm -- "He died by my curse," says the owl.
When a crow is killed by a storm, the fortuneteller says, "He died by my curse."
A fight between grasshoppers is a joy to the crow.
Where there is a rooster the chicken will not crow.
A sitting crow starves.
The crow flew over the sea but returned still a crow.
A spooked crow is afraid of a bush.
The crow wanted to mimic the pigeon's walk and forgot his own.
A lonely old crow, see someone you know, Fly to your right, sure to be right, And if you are hawking, money before night.
He who follows the crow will be led the the corpses of dogs.
The crow that mimics a cormorant gets drowned.
The hen tells the cock to crow.
A whitewashed crow soon shows black again.
The crow is clever, but looks at what it eats.
If you are a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
Don't crow till you're out of the woods.
Where the cock is the hen does not crow.
Every cock will crow upon his own dunghill.
The young crow is wiser than its mother.
A crow sits next to a crow.
A crow will not peck out a crow's eyes.
At a time a cockerel matures, it begins to crow to tell the world the time of day.
Once a cock begins to crow, it never again becomes dumb.
The crow hold the chilli in the mouth.
The dead will go to the village where the cock doesn't crow.
The crow says the ugliest runt is his own.
A crow will never be a falcon.
One crow does not make a winter.
One crow does not peck out another's eyes.
A crow is no whiter for being washed.
Shoot a daw and a crow, and soon you'll hit a falcon.
Feed a crow and it will pluck out your eyes.
A good cock will crow on every dungheap.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cockerels; bleat in a flock of goats.
A crow doesn't pick out another crow's eyes.
No matter how thoroughly a crow may wash, it remains ever black.
The village cock does not crow in town.
Who cares if a crow is male or female?
It is only the foolish cock that believes the sun won't rise if he doesn't crow.
Bad the crow, bad the egg.
More observant than a crow.
More cautious than a crow.
A lot got the crow to his mother.
A blind crow may sometimes find a grain of wheat.
The crow will find its mate.
Frequent washing makes not the crow whiter.
Daylight will come, though the cock do not crow.
A crow thinks her own bird fairest.
What bird so white as mine? says the crow.
One crow does not peck out another's eyes.
Every cock can crow on his own dunghill.
A crow a crow's eyes doesn't peck.
The Wealthy man has even his crow laying him eggs.
It is a sorry house where the hens crow and the cock is silent.
He is washing the crow.
A crow does not louse the buffalo to clean him but to feed himself.
Don't give the sparrow in the hand for the crow on the fence.
The eye of a crow boiled at the new moon brings good luck for the New Year.
A crow likes her own chick the best.
The crow thinks best of her own chickens.
The crow flies sky high and lands on a pig.
A flying crow always catches something.
The crow said: "Oh, my snow-white child".
The nose of him whose guide is a crow will never get out of the shit.
Shoot at a pigeon and kill a crow.
The owl has one note, the crow another.
The crow is a pretty bird when the jackdaw is not present.
A crow doesn't pick out another crow's eyes. (A thief does not steal from another thief)
The crow blames the crow, 'though its own beak is shitty.
One for blackbird, one for the crow, One for the cutworm, and one to grow.
Everything in its season and the crow in August.
As the old crow sing, so sings its fledglings.
No matter how thoroughly a crow may wash, it remains ever black.
A crow does not lay dove's eggs.
If you be a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
A crow does not pick out the crow's eye.
The crow thinks her own birds fairest.
A crow will not pick out the eyes of another crow.
The crow blames the crow, both equally grey.
As the old crow sings, so sing its fledglings.
He who slaps himself on the face should not cry ouch.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
Friendship does not need pepper to cry.
In the home of the coward they laugh while in the home of the brave they cry.
There is never a cry of "Wolf!" but the wolf is in the district.
If the child does not cry, the mother knows not its wants.
Ticks, bedbugs and a crying child are unendurable.
The blow is taken on the nose but it's the eyes that cry.
He who flatters with laughter wants to see you cry.
The baby who doesn't cry isn't nursed.
A young crocodile does not cry when he falls in the water.
A baby that does not cry will die on its mother's back.
A weaning baby that does not cry aloud, will die on its mothers back.
He who fears the crying of a child, will cry himself.
Little palm tree, stop crying, you child is the tall palm tree.
A frog hopped onto a wall and cried, ‘I can see kashmir!'
You cannot hear a baby cry in the mother's womb.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live you life in a manner so that when you die the world cries and you rejoice.
If you sing before breakfast, you'll cry before night.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
It's no use crying over spilt milk.
Laugh till you cry, sorrow till you die.
If the wolf had stayed in the wood there would have been no hue and cry after him.
"great cry and little wool,” said the fool, when he sheared a pig.
It's as hard to see a woman crying as it is to see a barefooted duck.
‘Tis as hard to see a woman cry, as a goose go barefoot.
Don't cry at somebody else's grave.
He who doesn't cry doesn't suckle.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice.
The rooster said, "I shall cry but whether the sun rises God knows."
Great cry and little wool, as the man said who shaved the sow.
When a father helps a son, both smile; but when a son must help his father, both cry.
The cry of the hyena and the loss of the goat are one.
One cry of "Thief!" and the whole marketplace is on the lookout.
A cry and a sniff, and all comes to naught.
I was wise once, when I was born I cried.
Who laughs early will cry later.
If you cry because the sun has gone out of your life, your tears will prevent you from seeing the stars.
No use crying at the market, sell your fur coat and drink the money.
It is too late to cry "Hold hard!” when the arrow has left the bow.
The laughter of someone pining for his beloved is like that of someone who is always crying.
If the child does not cry, the mother won't know what it wants.
Cry not out before you are hurt.
We do not care of what we have, but we cry when it is lost.
I cried when I was born and as each day passes I know why.
Sing before breakfast, cry before night.
Sorrow also sings, when it runs to deep to cry.
Don't be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts.
Never be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts.
Hear the warrior cry out.
We come and cry and that is life, we cry and go and that is death.
Laugh before breakfast, you'll cry before supper.
A baby cannot be heard crying in his mother's womb.
The mouse fell from the ceiling, and the cat cried "Allah!".
A bee stinging a crying face.
It is the same life whether we spend it crying or laughing.
Your years will still remain the same whether you laugh or cry.
The spot that makes the warrior benkei cry.
A cloudy sky doesn't always cry rain.
Good resolutions are like babies crying in church, they should be carried out immediately.
Tears will not stop flowing for someone who is crying for himself.
Soldiers don't cry.
A boy may cry; but a man as to conceal his pain.
When a girl whistles, the angels cry.
You can't see the sun when you're crying.
Laugh before breakfast and you'll cry before lunch.
He must cry aloud who would scare the devil.
Let a child have its will, and it will not cry.
Don't cry before you are hurt.
Don't cry fish before they're caught.
Don't cry hurra! till your are over the hedge (till you are out of the wood).
Don't cry "Hurra!" till you are over the ditch.
He who cries today that he has no bread will cry again tomorrow because he isn't hungry.
We come into this world crying while all around us are smiling. May we so live that we go out of this world smiling while everybody around us is weeping.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
If you laugh to-day, you will cry to-morrow.
Don't cry fried fish before they are caught.
When a father gives to his son, both laugh; when a son gives to his father, both cry.
To cry with one eye, and laugh with the other.
Eyes that do not cry, do not see.
Give the white child so that the black child doesn't cry.
Kissing is cried down since the shaking o' hands.
The child does not cry as long as it has its way.
Great cry and little wool, as the devil said when he sheared the sow.
The child that falls by itself does not cry.
Laugh and everyone sees it, cry and no one sees it.
Great cry and little wool, quoth the devil, when he sheared his hogs.
Don't cry herrings till they are in the net.
There is no cure that does not have its price.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Prevention is better than cure.
What whiskey will not cure, there is no cure for.
Cure the illness that is not yet an illness.
He wanted to cure a healthy pig and ended up with a sick one.
There is no cure that does not cost.
There is no cure for an unknown illness.
An ivory tooth is not cure for the lost tooth.
The sickness of the body is the cure of the mind.
The cure is worse than the disease.
That sick man is not to be pitied who has his cure in his sleeve.
the cure for fate is patience.
There is no cure against a slanderer's bite.
What butter or whiskey will not cure is incurable.
Little talk is easy to cure.
Another's misfortune does not cure my pain.
A gold ring does not cure a felon.
A crown is no cure for the headache.
Only death will cure the hunchback.
Only the cure you believe in cures.
The presence of the doctor is the beginning of the cure.
The best cure for drunkenness is to observe a drunken person when you are sober.
No medicines can cure the vulgar man.
Men grow old, pearls grow yellow, there is no cure for it.
Even an accomplished physician cannot cure himself.
There is no cure for vulgarity.
When a man is crazy about a woman only she can cure him.
Just as a medicine may not cure a serious illness, wine will certainly not dispel your grief.
There is no physician who can cure the disease of love.
If you cure a monkey of its tooth ache its your maize farm that suffers.
There is no medicine to cure hatred.
You cannot cure a wound by striking it gently.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than that which is given by the sword.
A crown's no cure for a headache.
The cure for bad times is patience.
Lying is the disease and truth is the cure.
Money is a Cure.
Silence is a cure for grief.
Abstinence and fasting cure many a complaint.
No diadem can cure a headache.
The only cure for love is marriage.
Every patient is a doctor after his cure.
What butter and whiskey won't cure, there is no cure for.
No herb will cure love.
Love is blind, but marriage finds a cure.
The cure for anything is salt water - sweat, tears, or the sea.
The cure may be worse than the disease.
Repentance won't cure mischief.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Death will cure all pain.
Mallow will cure you.
Unstringing the bow does not cure the wound.
Sleep is the best cure for waking troubles.
It is better to prevent than to cure.
It is better to prevent than to cure.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
[Only] grave will cure the hunchback.
Only the cure you believe in cures.
What butter and whiskey will not cure there's no cure for.
Repentance won't cure mischief.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than sword.
No herb will cure love.
You need firm care to cure deep melancholy.
One can cause the illness which he wanted to cure.
A saint that cannot cure anyone has few disciples.
A sharp tongue will cut off its own head.
Copying everybody else all the time, the monkey one day cut his throat.
Measure a thousand times and cut once.
You don't have to cut a tree down to get at the fruit.
One knife will not cut another knife; one cheat will not cheat another cheat.
Don't cut off the monkey's tail before it is dead.
A man must put grain in the ground before he can cut the harvest.
Whichever hand is cut, the whole body feels the pain.
When the vine entwines your roof, it is time to cut it down.
‘My belly thinks my throat is cut,' as the hungry man said.
If a fool borrows a book, cut off his hand; but cut off both hands, of the fool who brings it back.
Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade.
Where there is little bread, cut first.
Never cut what can be untied.
The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap.
Cowards' weapons neither cut nor pierce.
Without an ax no tree can be cut down.
Useful trees are cut down first.
A little axe can cut down a big tree.
No matter how sharp it is, a knife will never cut it's own handle.
It is pleasant to cut thongs on another man's leather.
Measure seven times, cut once.
A razor may be sharper than an ax, but it cannot cut wood.
Good company on the road is the shortest cut.
Silk is cut best with old scissors.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
Do not measure up the wood before the tree is cut down.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
Nobody will cut a head off except the one who put it on.
If your mouth were a knife, it would cut off your lips.
Cut of the sick part while it is still small.
Who picks a tool unsuited to a task should not complain if it does no more than cut the hand that holds it.
To lend your hatchet and get your forest cut down.
Don't take a golden sword to cut a radish.
Some men wonder over God's values, others over the cut of a garment.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring, a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not.
The best way to eat the elephant standing in your path is to cut it up into little pieces.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
If you cut down the trees you will find the wolf.
Fish or cut bait.
The outward forms the inward man reveal - we guess the pulp before we cut the peel.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
Your nose is a part of you even if it was cut.
You must cut your coat according to your cloth.
If you lend your coat, don't cut off the buttons.
Many kiss the hand they would gladly see cut off.
When the tree is down, everyone runs to it with a hatchet to cut wood.
Broad thongs may be cut from other men's leather.
Save a thief from the gallows and he'll be the first who shall cut your throat.
He who cannot cut the bread evenly cannot get on well with people.
Sow good and you'll reap good; sow bad and you'll reap bad. You don't have to cut down a tree to get its fruit.
Wood can only be split with a wedge that is cut from its own tree.
Death said to the man with his throat cut, "How ugly you look."
Let not your tongue cut your throat.
Lilly axe can cut down big tree.
Eat fam'bly bittle but no cut fam'bly ‘tory.
Who reminds of the past and recall what has been will have his ear cut off.
Once you've cut the bread, you cannot put it together again.
He who licks knives will soon cut his tongue.
If he keeps on imitating everybody the monkey will one day cut his own throat.
It is easy to cut thongs form other men's leather.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
Measure twice, cut once.
Measure thy cloth ten times, thou canst cut it but once.
Before you marry, have a house to live in, fields to till, and vines to cut.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
If you see that a town worships a calf, then cut the grass and feed it.
Don't cut your cactus in a neighbor's garden.
When the last tree has been cut down, the last river has been polluted and the last fish has been caught -- only then do you realize that money can't buy everything.
The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood.
Everyone cut the grass. Cut the grass. Let no one call the others 'Prisoners'.
One man cut the barrage, and a thousand people fell into the river.
Four thousand throats may be cut in one night by a running man.
It is best to bind up the finger before it is cut.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring; a cut may heal but the cut of the tongue does not.
Who has a habit, will never leave it even if his finger gets cut.
Three times measure, one time cut.
Measure three times before you cut once.
Don't cut off ya nose to spite ya face.
A forest cannot be cut with a broken axe.
You learn how to cut down trees cutting them down.
Once the last tree is cut and the last river poisoned, you will find you cannot eat your money.
Constant rubbing of a rope will cut a stone.
Kiss the hand you can not cut.
The ungrateful son is like a wart on his father's face; to leave it there is unsightly, to cut it off is painful.
The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
The grass may be greener on the other side, but it is just as difficult to cut.
A narrow neck keeps the bottle from being emptied in one swig.
When you try to walk the straight and narrow you get pebbles in your shoes.
When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down.
No experience, narrow minded.
At the narrow passage, there is no brother and no friend.
A narrow place can contain a thousand friends.
He who is narrow of vision cannot be big of heart.
Who is narrow minded cannot be bighearted.
Dangerous enemies will meet again in narrow streets.
Narrow gathered, widely spent.
Over narrow counting culzies no kindnesse.
A great sea comes not through a narrow strait.
God save you from narrow doorways, a caning, stones thrown at the blind and the weighing of shop keepers.
Now my resources are reduced to a narrow compass.
When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down.
The way of knowledge is narrow.
Narrow gathered, widely spent.
Every little yielding to anxiety is a step away from the natural heart of man.
It's natural to have some disagreement between husband and wife.
The land of marriage has this peculiarity: That strangers are desirous of inhabiting it, while its natural inhabitants would gladly be exiled.
There is a good reason why natural water never runs at night.
Dying is as natural as living soundly.
It is as natural to be born as to die.
Bush natural; more hair than wit.
The reputation of a man is like his shadow; it sometimes follows and sometimes precedes him, it is sometimes longer and sometimes shorter than his natural size.
A man of good natural plain common sense.
Grace could be natural.
He who does not love their national language is worse than a putrid fish.
National customs are national honours.
Hail to thee, Nicaragua "Salve a ti, Nicaragua” is the Nicaraguan national anthem. (Video)
"Pátria Amada” (Beloved Homeland) is the title of the national anthem of Mozambique.
"Namibia, Land of the Brave” is the national anthem of Namibia.
"O Canada” is the title of the national anthem of Canada.
The lyrics of the national anthem of the Czech Republic:.
"Land der Berge, Land am Strome” (Land of mountains, land by the river) is the title of the national anthem of Austria.
"Du gamla, du fria” (Thou ancient, Thou free) is the title of the de facto national anthem of Sweden.
The "Deutschlandlied” (Song of Germany is the title of the national anthem of Germany.
China National anthem Chinese & English lyrics.
"Tavisupleba” is the title of the national anthem of Georgia.
Lightning over the Tatras (Nad Tatrou sa blýska) is the national anthem of Slovakia.
The national anthem of Iceland is known as as "Ó Guð vors lands” which means "God of our Land”.
The "Marching Song” (Tiến Quân Ca) is the national anthem of Vietnam.
Our Homeland "Ons Heemecht” is the national anthem of Luxembourg.
Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby.
When the mouse laughs at the car, there is a hole nearby.
When the mice laugh at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
The canary that dances along the bush path must have its drummer in the nearby bush.
A stranger nearby is better than a far-away relative.
The church is nearby, God is far away.
Where profit is, loss is hiding nearby.
When the mouse laughs at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby.
Where need is great, help is nearby.
The melon seller does not announce, "Bitter melons." Distant water does not put out a nearby fire.
Instruct a man, you instruct an individual. Instruct a woman, you instruct a nation.
The ruin of a nation begins in the homes of its people.
A nation without a language is a nation without a heart.
The strength of a nation is its knowledge.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the nation and its destiny.
A sea will not dry up, a nation will not get lost.
When there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
The state of a nation is reflected in the home.
Easier to rule a nation than a son.
As Maine goes, so goes the nation.
Sometimes the whole nation has to pay for the foolish deed of one man.
This nation doesn't believe in anything what Russia says. What a terrible danger it contains!
If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in the character. If there is beauty in the character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
Scholars are invaluable to a nation as the best course to a banquet.
If there is light in the soul, there will be beauty in the person. If there is beauty in the person, there will be harmony in the house. If there is harmony in the house, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
No one truly knows a nation until one has been inside its jails.
Criticism of the state is all right, but don't forget the nation is you.
A mother is a school, preparing her is like preparing a good nation.
This is a stubborn and proud nation.
They ate our food, and forgot our names.
Tigers die and leave their skins; people die and leave their names.
Tigers die and leave their stripes, but humans die leaving their names.
Beloved children have many names.
From our ancestors come our names from our virtues our honor.
The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their right names.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will break my spirit.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
A pet child has many names.
No names, no pack-drill.
The patient who names a doctor his heir makes a big mistake.
Good men must die, but death cannot kill their names.
The names of fools are always written on walls.
From our ancestors come our names, but from our virtues our honours.
Good men must die, but death cannot kill their names.
Family names are like flowers, they blossom in clusters.
No names, no pack-drill.
To neglect one's ancestors would bring ill-fortune and failure in life.
May your neighbors respect you, Trouble neglect you, The angels protect you, And heaven accept you.
If you neglect the pot, it boils over and extinguishes the fire.
Fortune is a woman; if you neglect her today do not expect to regain her tomorrow.
He that neglects time, time will neglect.
Do not neglect the undoing for the setting.
Practice no vice because it's trivial; neglect no virtue because it's so.
Don't neglect the consequence of your act.
Neglect will sooner kill an injury than revenge.
Bashfulness is of no use to the needy.
A thread from everyone will make a shirt for the needy.
The poor are the needy.
A young man idle, an old man needy.
A young man idle, an old man needy.
An idle youth, a needy age.
Do you want to buy cheap? Buy of a needy fool.
Help the needy but not the poor.
The richer they are, the needier they are.
A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture.
Women are necessary evils.
It is not necessary to fish up every bucket that falls into the well.
‘Tis as necessary to him as gold weights are to a beggar.
You already possess everything necessary to become great.
For those who believe, no proof is necessary. For those who don't believe, no proof is possible.
In reviling, it is not necessary to prepare a preliminary draft.
Courtesy is appropriate for gentlemen and necessary for thieves.
A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture.
Once you put on? the wedding ring you must submit to all that is necessary.
It is not necessary to fall into a well to know its depth.
Success (only) comes after every necessary precaution.
When there is trust, no proof is necessary.
It is more necessary to guard the mouth than the chest.
Necessity turns lion into fox.
Necessity changes a lion into a fox.
When necessity speaks, it demands.
Necessity is a great teacher.
The driver of an ass must by necessity know its wind.
Necessity could make a thief.
Necessity knows no law.
Necessity makes the frog jump.
Necessity and opportunity may make a coward valiant.
Necessity knows no laws.
Necessity breaks iron.
Necessity is mother of every invention.
A wife is a luxury... A smart accountant a necessity.
Difficulties relate only to necessity.
Necessity never made a good bargain.
Want and necessity break faith and oaths.
God gives the will, necessity gives the law.
Necessity teaches the naked woman to spin.
Necessity teaches all things.
Necessity teaches even the lame to dance.
Necessity unites hearts.
Necessity teaches arts.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity becomes will.
Necessity is a great teacher.
Necessity has no law.
He forges a virtue on necessity.
Necessity teaches naked woman to spin.
Necessity can break iron.
Necessity knows no law.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Nothing is grievous which necessity enjoins.
Necessity recognizes no law.
Necessity requires no decision.
Make a virtue of necessity.
Necessity is a strong weapon.
Old people know much; they were taught by necessity.
Difficulties relate only to necessity.
Necessity knows no law.
Necessity knows no law.
What may be done at ony time will be done at nae time.
Bread and cheese is gude to eat when folk can get nae ither meat.
Charge nae mair shot than the piece ‘ll bear.
Counsel is nae command.
There grows nae grass at the market cross.
Eagles catches nae fleas.
He likes nae beef that grows on my banes.
His tongue's nae slander.
I bake nae bread by your shins.
Bannocks are better than nae bread.
Lang fasting hains nae meat.
Lang straes are nae mots.
Ae swallow makes nae simmer.
A rowing stane gathers nae fog.
Nae man can baith sup an' blaw thegither.
Time and tide for nae man bide.
Meikle crack fills nae sack.
A fair offer is nae feud.
Put your hand nae farther oot than your sleeve will reach.
Neck or naething, the king loes nae cripples.
Nae friend to a friend in need.
Nae man has a tack of his life.
Light burdens break nae banes.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
A turtle is not proud of his long neck.
A turtle can only get on it by sticking its neck out.
False ambition serves the neck.
Put a rope around your neck and many will be happy to drag you along.
If you put a rope around your neck, many people will be glad to drag you by it.
If a man puts a cord around his neck, God will provide someone to pull it.
The hand of the child cannot reach the shelf, nor the hand of the adult get through the neck of the gourd.
To every child his own neck ornament.
never let your tongue hit your neck.
Neck or nothing.
A narrow neck keeps the bottle from being emptied in one swig.
Many a white collar covers a dirty neck.
Tell your secret to your friend and he will set his foot on your neck.
Better a leg broken than the neck.
He that has the devil on his neck must find him work.
Move your neck according to the music.
The neck cannot become the head.
To him who puts a cord around his neck, God will supply someone to pull it.
A camel cannot see the crookedness of its neck.
Having little knowledge is like having your hands tied around your neck like a slave.
The gourd's neck cannot be straightened in it's old age, it can only be broken.
Don't seek to hurt any man, but if any man seeks to hurt you may he break his neck.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
He who is to break his neck finds the stairs in the dark.
God gave the giraffe a long neck so that He would not have to bend the palm tree.
When the fox preaches to the goose her neck is in danger.
He who strikes another on the neck, does not strike far from the head.
It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg, that another has broken his neck.
When the goose trusts the fox then woe to her neck.
Tell your friend your secret, and he will set his foot on your neck.
He would break his neck against a straw.
Who would not have feet set on his neck, let him not stoop.
One misfortune comes on the neck of another.
Put a begger on horseback, and he will ride fast, or else break his neck.
A neck without a head, buttocks without a hole and a girl without shame are not worth admiring or marrying.
Other's ornaments tire one's neck.
Pearls around the neck, stones upon the heart.
Better stretch your hand than your neck.
Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great ones by the purse.
They asked the wolf: "Why is your neck thick?", and it said: "I do my job myself, that's why."
Beads about the neck, and the devil in the heart.
A turtle makes progress when it sticks its neck out.
An evil conscience breaks many a man's neck.
Beads about the neck, and the devil in his heart.
A drunkard is like a whisky bottle only neck and belly but no head.
Neck or nothing.
No man ever wore a scarf as warm as his daughter's arm around his neck.
Even when a sharp sword rests on your neck, don't give up on mercy.
Pearls around the neck, stones upon the heart.
Beads about the neck and the devil in the heart.
Neck or naething, the king loes nae cripples.
A woman is like the moon-some nights it is silver others gold.
One who marries for love alone will have bad days but good nights.
Pleasures shorten tedious nights.
The Older one marries, the longer the nights.
When peaches flower and ripen, days and nights have the same length.
When pisa burned, it rained three nights and three days.
Many seek good nights and waste good days.
He that marries for love has good nights, but sorry days.
The glow-works light the nights, but more so the night that their mother prepares porridge.
The nights are short for him who married late in life.
He wha marries for love without money, has merry nights and surry days.
Wonder lasts but nine nights in a Town.
You cannot hang everything on one nail.
Only your nail scratches your skin.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?
Every time one laughs a nail is removed from one's coffin.
The nail that sticks its head up is the one that gets hit.
If the nail decided to malinger, it would not pierce butter.
If you are building something and a nail breaks, should you stop building altogether, or should you change the nail?
To a man who only has a hammer in his tool kit, every problem looks like a nail.
It takes a heap of licks to strike a nail in the dark.
A guest sticks a nail in the wall even if he stays but one night.
A guest hammers a nail in the wall even if he stays only one night.
He who loves drives a nail into his heart.
He takes out a nail and puts in a pin.
Leave no nail unclenched.
Work is burning down to his nail.
Darg-flea tell him pickeny him mustn't say him dead till him ketch pon finger nail.
No hang you clothes all pon one nail.
To hit the nail on the head.
One nail drives in another.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost.
It takes a heap of licks to drive a nail in the dark.
For want of a nail the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; for want of a horse the rider was lost.
The nail that sticks out is the one that gets hammered down.
Ye ca' hardest at the nail that drives fastest.
The nail that sticks out gets pounded.
One nail drives out another.
The nail supports the hoof, the hoof the horse, the horse the man, the man the world.
Drive the nail that will go.
A nail secures the horse-shoe, the shoe the horse, the horse the man, the man the castle, and the castle the whole land.
He who would make a golden door must add a nail to it daily.
One man knocks in the nail, and another hangs his hat on it.
There is no nail varnish that can make old hands look younger.
He who buys a house gets many a plank and nail for nothing.
A new sieve is on a nail, then it gets under the bed.
The nail sticks out of the sack.
It hit a nail into his head.
Nail by, with nail.
He hits the nail on the head.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost; for want of a shoe the horse is lost; for want of a horse the rider is lost.
One nail drives out another.
When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
A hammer breaks glass, but also forms steel. Everything cannot be hung on one nail.
The horseshoe that clatters wants a nail.
One stroke on the nail and a hundred on the horseshoe.
The nail that sticks up will be hammered down. (Whatling, 2009) From the Japanese, "deru kugi wa utareru."
Hit the nail on the head.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?
Hit the nail and you hit the horseshoe.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse is lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
For want of a nail a kingdom was lost.
One nail drives out another.
Everything cannot be hung on one nail.
Only the nightingale understands the rose.
Even if the nightingale is in a gold cage, she still dreams of returning to the forest.
The smile of a rose uplifts the nightingale.
It is better to hear the nightingale sing than the mouse gnaw.
Everybody thinks his own cuckoo sings better than another's nightingale.
What does a donkey know about the life of a nightingale?
The old nightingale sings better.
They put the nightingale into a golden cage, yet it still craved for its home.
The nightingale will run out of songs before a woman runs out of conversation.
The owl sings to the nightingale.
The nightingale can't be fed by fables.
In the estimation of the nightingale, a cage of gold is a prison.
The rotten apple injures its neighbour.
Look to your near neighbour rather than to your distant brother.
Look after your property, and you won't accuse your neighbour of being a thief.
When your neighbour is wrong you point a finger, but when you are wrong you hide.
The key at the girdle keeps me good and my neighbour too.
Shut your door, and you will make your neighbour good.
A near neighbour is better than a distant cousin.
For a wife and a horse go to your neighbour.
Does your neighbour love you? Lend him a sequin.
The poor is hated by his neighbour, but the rich hath many friends.
Love thy neighbour, but pull not down thy hedge.
The bad neighbour gives a needle without thread.
An envious man waxes lean with the fatness of his neighbour.
A brother is a cooking pot, and a neighbour is a cooking pot lid.
You can leave without a friend but never without a neighbour.
A lazy man will remember he has not planted when is neighbour is harvesting.
A man that flatters his neighbour spreads a net for his feet.
Cast the beam out of your own eye before you try to cast the mote from the eyes of your neighbour.
Love your neighbour, but do not pull down the fence.
A good lawyer, an evil neighbour.
The neighbour comes before the home.
If your neighbour visits mecca once, watch out for him.
A good neighbour is better than a brother far off.
You cannot have peace longer than your neighbour chooses.
Many a man is a good friend but a bad neighbour.
Love your neighbour, but don't pull down the fence.
Drink is the curse of the land. It makes you fight with your neighbour. It makes you shoot at your landlord – and it makes you miss him.
Never sleep with a stranger or borrow from a neighbour.
The loss which your neighbour does not know is no real loss.
Better a near neighbour than a distant cousin.
He who has a good neighbour has a good morning.
Love thy neighbour as thyself.
A good neighbour, a good morrow.
He should have a heal pow, that cals his neighbour nikkynow.
No one can have peace longer than his neighbour pleases.
He who can give has many a good neighbour.
What my neighbour eats does my stomach no good.
A good lawyer is a bad neighbour.
Let me tell you about my fate: it is an insult. Let me explain it to you: it is a disgrace.
Were I to tell my neighbour about my fate, he would heap insults upon me.
I looked into the water. My destiny was drifting past. I was born on an ill-fated day.
A near neighbour is better than a far-dwelling kinsman.
Love your neighbour, yet don't pull down your hedge.
All is fish that comes to the net.
The devil catches most souls in a golden net.
The net of the sleeper catches fish.
It is in vain to lay a net in sight of the birds.
A new net won't catch an old bird.
The rich man breaks through the mesh and escapes, the afflicted man remains in the net and is caught.
All is fish that comes to the net.
To fish behind the net.
Great fishes break the net.
Like a fish, one should look for a hole in the net.
It is better to go home and make your net than to gaze longingly at the fish in the deep pool.
Weaving a net is better than praying for fish at the edge of the water.
The net of heaven is large and wide, but it lets nothing through.
Go home and make a net if you desire to get fishes.
It is no good going to the river just wanting to catch a fish; you have to take a net as well.
Don't stand by the water and long for fish; go home and weave a net.
Seeking fish? Don't dive in the pond; go home and get a net.
You can't spread a net to catch a bird that is watching you.
It is ill fishing before the net.
Though the bird's in the net It may get away yet.
He that fishes afore the net, long e're he fish get.
Fishing without a net is just bathing.
When a net is worn out, it is thrown away on the shore.
Don't cry herrings till they are in the net.
He that lets his fish escape, may cast his net often yet never catch it again.
All's fish that comes to the net.
He catches the wind with a net.
For the fisherman, the fun is over when the fish are in the net.
Don't cry herrings till they are in the net.
You don't cast a net into a river that has no fish.
The sieve says to the needle, "You have a hole in your tail."
Where the needle goes, the thread follows.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
You cannot hit the point of a needle with a fist.
The needle makes clothes but stays naked.
Do use a needle in time, or you might need an axe later.
The thread must be longer than the needle.
The needle dresses people but stays naked itself.
Like the needle which clothes others while remaining naked.
Between a woman's "Yes” and "No” there is no room for the point of a needle.
A bad neighbor will give you a needle with no thread.
The needle is small, but it sews expensive garments.
Search for a needle in the ocean.
A girl without a needle is like a cat without a claw.
The bad neighbour gives a needle without thread.
When a needle sees a dagger, she cries "O sister!”.
Evil penetrates like a needle and then becomes like an oak tree.
When you are pepper, I am mustard; when thou art a needle, I am a knife.
The point of the needle must pass first.
Evil enters like a needle and spreads like an oak tree.
If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow.
To start a fight, one does not bring a knife that cuts but a needle that sews.
You can see heaven through the eye of the needle.
Getting money is like digging with a needle. Spending it is like water soaking into the sand.
Making money is like digging with a needle.
No needle is sharp at both ends.
Perseverance can reduce an iron rod to a sewing needle.
An iron rod can be ground down to become a needle.
A bar of iron continually ground becomes a needle.
A needle cannot hold two threads or a mind two thoughts.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow.
The thread follows the needle.
The thief proceeds from a needle to gold, and from gold to the gallows.
The bad neighbor gives a needle without thread.
He looks for a needle in a bundle of hay.
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
It's no good to sprick the bear with a needle.
What value is a needle without an eye?
To engage in conflict, one does not bring a knife that cuts -but a needle that sews.
Needle and thread are half clothing.
What starts with a needle usually ends with a silver bowl.
Hot needle burn thread.
A needle is sharp only at one end.
The sieve says to the needle; you have a hole in your head.
What value is a needle without an eye?
He tint never a Cow, that grat for a needle.
There is nothing noble in being superior to some other man. The true nobility is in being superior to your previous self.
Nobility of soul is more honourable than nobility of birth.
Nobility without wealth is more worthless than the seaweed which the tide has left.
Nobility is what is earned by those who have no other earnings.
True nobility is in being superior to your previous self.
Nobility follows the man's line at a wedding.
Nobility is less esteemed when it lacks wealth.
Nobility imposes obligations.
Nobility is nothing but ancient riches, and money is the world's idol.
The gift of the king is the nobility of the exalted; the gift of the king is the favor of governors.
True nobility is invulnerable.
Nice words are free, so choose ones that please another's ears.
If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all.
With nice appearance people want to be deceived.
Who is over nice, loses many a slice.
Everyone is nice until the cow gets into the garden.
The nice apples are always eaten by nasty pigs.
If the rich could hire the poor to die for them, the poor would make a very nice living.
A promise is a nice word, if kept then it is all right.
Nice words appease even the enemy.
The stomach is not content with nice words.
Found a nice tree when your axe broken.
When visitors come a wi fireside, wi mek wi pot smell nice.
This basket that leaves and returns unfilled is not nice.
Foreign places are nice enough, but home is sweeter.
It's nice to have a spoon in time for dinner.
She would be a nice girl if she didn't have her head.
Be careful of the words you say each day, make sure each is nice and sweet, because may be in the days ahead, there will be some you'll have to eat.
Nice guys finish last.
Good remains are nice to have.
A person who is always nice is not always nice.
A nice face is the best letter of recommendation.
There is no nice bird in the millet.
Not all nice things are dear, but those that are dear are nice.
Being too nice can cost a lot.
Guests always have nice backs.
Stealing would be a nice thing, if thieves were hanged by the girdle.
Say something nice or say nothing at all.
It's surely nice to be engaged and drunk, but it's different to have hangover and marriage.
Pretty girls, nice daughters, but from where do the mean women come?
A nice day, a gift for a street peddlar.
Take the world nice and easy, and the world will take you the same.
He, who buys what he does not need, sells what he needs.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Great needs grow from great possessions.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes, the horse thief not one.
A poor person isn't he who has little, but he who needs a lot.
God provides, but He needs a nudge.
Life is like the flame of a lamp; it needs a little oil now and then.
To have luck needs little wit.
An understanding person needs only half a word.
Love is like a baby: it needs to be treated tenderly.
A little nod is enough for the wise man; an ass needs a fist.
A speaker needs no tools.
A sinking vessel needs no navigation.
He who buys useless things, later sells things that he needs.
Success never needs an excuse.
Good wine needs no bush.
An enterprizing foole needs little wit.
The world still he keeps at his staff's end that needs not to borrow and never will lend.
He that would stop everybody's mouth needs plenty of flour.
The full person does not understand the needs of the hungry.
A Good son needs no inheritance, the bad needs none.
An alive person needs life.
Good wind needs no bush.
A good appetite needs no sauce.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes; the seller but one.
A man of straw needs a woman of gold.
He who will not serve one master must needs serve many.
To become rich in this world, it needs only to turn one's back on God.
Blessed is the man who has friends, but woe to him who needs them.
A cold needs the cook as much as the doctor.
It is one word of advice that one needs to give to a wise man, and that word keeps multiplying in his mind.
Man's mind is a watch that needs winding daily.
Speak what needs to be said, or stay silent.
An empty barn needs no roof.
He needs a long candle who awaits the death of another.
Good right needs good help.
It needs a cunning hand to shave a fool's head.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Good wine needs no bush.
Where there is no sore there needs no plaister.
A blind man's wife needs no paint.
A good paymaster needs no security.
Even the best horse needs to be spurred.
Be satisfied with the needs instead of the wants.
Life is like a lamp flame; it needs a little oil now and then.
Zeal is like fire: it needs both feeding and watching.
It needs no laran to prophesy snow at midwinter.
A wife is like clothes and banana plant needs weeding.
A red lacquer dish needs no decoration.
There is no better sale than when you give a true friend what he needs.
A sleeping head needs more than its neck to support it.
Love is like a baby; it needs to be treated tenderly.
Sin concealed needs two forgivings.
A god-given beauty needs no beautician.
Every bird needs its own feathers.
No one is so tall that he never needs to stretch, and no one is so short that he never needs to stoop.
It needs a high wall to keep out fear.
It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate.
It needs but slight provocation to make the wolf devour the lamb.
Your friendship is your needs answered.
He that will not be saved needs no preacher.
Nought needs no hiding-place.
Good wine needs no bush.
Who seeks more than he needs hinders himself from enjoying what he has.
Fine words are not enough for the empty stomach, it needs bread...
Good wine needs no signboard, bush.
Truth needs not many words.
Good wine needs no bush.
He that has no money needs no purse.
A running horse needs no spur.
An old fox needs learn no craft.
A blind man needs no looking glass.
Good wine needs not a wisp.
Whoever sows on hard ground, needs good wishes and luck.
Her beauty is the only dowery a beautiful girl needs.
If the rich man is fawning over the poor man, you can be certain that he needs something.
A herdsman needs a staff, a door needs a bolt.
Whomever needs milk, bows to the animal.
The best horse needs a whip, intelligent men need advice, and the devout man needs a woman.
What is done no longer needs to be done.
A lawyer needs three bags: one full of papers, one full of money, and one full of patience.
One must needs like what one cannot hinder.
A woman like a horse needs spurs.
A restive morsel needs a spur of wine.
He needs say nothing about the score who pays nothing.
Every woman needs two men - one to be married to and the other to compare.
Good wine needs no crier.
Needs must when the devil drives.
He who sits waiting for his neighbor will go to bed hungry.
A good deed will make a good neighbor.
If you cannot become rich, be the neighbor of a rich man.
A physician's neighbor is never a doctor.
If you see your neighbor has lost his beard, you'd best start lathering yours.
I am talking to you, daughter-in-law, so that you could hear it, neighbor.
Be patient with a bad neighbor. Maybe he'll leave or a disaster will take him out.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
Your close neighbor is better than your faraway brother.
Better to marry a neighbor than a stranger.
When your neighbor walks through your orchard, the polite thing to do is to ignore it.
When you enjoy loving your neighbor, it ceases to be a virtue.
If your neighbor is an early riser, you too will become one.
Absence, and a friendly neighbor, washeth away love.
Love your neighbor, yet pull not down your hedge.
A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor.
Choose your neighbor before your house and your companion before the road.
Neighbor once over the hedge, neighbor over it again.
A bad neighbor will give you a needle with no thread.
A loss not missed by your neighbor is not a real loss.
Does your neighbor bore you? Lend him some money.
Never want while your neighbor has it.
If you want to hear the truth about yourself - offend your neighbor.
He who prays for his neighbor will be heard for himself.
If my neighbor is happy, my own work will go easier, too.
Better a bad harvest than a bad neighbor.
The head of your neighbor is a kingdom and his heart a wood.
When your neighbor burns down, your hurt is near.
Better a thief for a neighbor than an overzealous rabbi.
He who slanders his neighbor makes a rod for his own back.
A friend to my table and wine is no good neighbor.
Great Spirit, grant that I may not criticize my neighbor until I have walked a mile in his moccasins.
Do not judge your neighbor until you walk two moons in his moccasins.
Do not wrong or hate your neighbor for it is not he that you wrong but yourself.
An ugly child of your own is more to you than a beautiful one belonging to your neighbor.
He who lacks knowledge derides his neighbor, but the man of understanding holds his tongue.
Do not hurt your neighbor, for it is not him you wrong but yourself.
When your neighbor shaves, you start to wet your cheeks.
Choose the neighbor before the house.
One's son is clever while the neighbor is suspicious.
Danger is next neighbor to security.
God grant us no neighbor with two eyes.
No one is so rich that he can do without a good neighbor.
Love your neighbor, but don't tear down your fence.
He who has a good neighbor has a good friend.
The neighbor's hen is a goose to a neighbor.
The bad neighbor gives a needle without thread.
A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor.
God detests a man who rushes to accuse a neighbor.
Whoever digs a pit for his neighbor should dig it his own size.
To make your neighbor jealous, go to bed early and get up early.
The mother bears the daughter and the neighbor marries her off.
Vegetable garden and mill, don't tell your neighbor how much they yield.
A good lawyer is a bad neighbor.
In the presence of your neighbor don't praise your wife or his.
Everyone is worth more than his neighbor and less than his son.
The neighbor teaches the neighbor to live at home.
Absence and a friendly neighbor washes away love.
When your neighbor got the itches you too must seek the remedy.
Better a good neighbor than a bad relative.
Choose the neighbor before the house.
What matter if I suffer, if only my neighbor suffers too.
Go in God's name–so you ride no witches.
A bad son gives his mother a bad name.
If Nakedness promises you a piece of cloth, ask him his name.
A good name is a rich inheritance.
He who gets a name for early rising can stay in bed until midday.
If he was any good, his name would be Kheirollah.
A good name is better than good habits.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
One can't die if he's brave. Even when he die his name lasts forever.
A good name is more valuable than a velvet garment.
Don't give a child a name until after it is born.
Better to see the face than to hear the name.
Only when the coffin is closed will we see how long lasting is the name.
Life is for one generation; a good name is forever.
A man's good name is as precious to him as its skin is to a tiger.
A tiger dies and leaves his skin; a man dies and leaves his name.
Before you beat the dog, find out the name of his master.
A good name is a second inheritance.
Remember even if you loose all, keep your good name for if you loose that you are worthless.
A good painter need not give a name to his picture, a bad one must.
Get a good name and go to sleep.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
He who has a bad name is half hanged.
A bad wound may heal, but a bad name will kill.
A good name is better than gold.
A family name is not cooked and eaten, one's life is the thing.
He who leaves a good name does not die poor.
It is better to suffer in name the truth than being rewarded for lying.
The name of love's finance is divorce.
A good name covers theft.
Give a dog a bad name and hang it.
He that has an ill name is half hanged.
Everybody has a name, but not always the same luck with it.
A good name is better than good perfume.
A good name is sooner tint that won.
A good name reaches far but a bad one reaches farther.
A man has the same last name as his brother.
A dog which steals leaves its puppies a bad name.
A bad name is like a stigma.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Nuh name, nuh blame.
There is more than one dog name bob.
A good name is better than precious ointment.
A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches.
Give a dog a tasty name and eat him.
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.
You cannot name a child that is not born.
One's name remains above the grave.
It is possible to kill a man but it is impossible to kill his name.
Don't give a dog a bad name in order to have an excuse to burn it.
If nakedness promises to cloth you then look at its name.
A fool's name is seen in many places.
Conscience is only another name for truth.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the "guilty” list.
He is a fool and ever shall, Who writes his name upon a wall.
Those who get the name of rising early may lie all day.
Get a good name and go to sleep.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
He who hath an ill name is half hanged.
A good name is better than riches.
The river may dry up but she keeps her name.
A good name is better than oil.
Bite me not, my name is little grizzle; had I a little tail I should be a little lion.
He that hath an ill name is half hanged.
With a good name one may sin easily.
We have no son, and yet are giving him a name.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
The friar who prays in god's name prays for two.
Name not a rope in his house that hanged himself.
You have to suffer in the name of fashion.
Get a good name and go to sleep.
A good name is like sweet smelling ointment.
He who hath lost his good name how shall he in future gain his living.
Vices creep into our hearts under the name of virtue.
Give a dog a bad name and he'll live up to it. (or ...he'll repay you for it.)
The battle-club would not find out your name -- it would just find your flesh.
A stake, my lord; "hero" is its name.
A name doesn't make a man worse, if the man doesn't make his name worse.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
Name not a rope in his house who hanged himself.
Life is the name of liveliness.
There is no name which cannot distinguish a child.
A good name is better than wealth.
A fool's name is seen in many places.
A bad wound is cured, not a bad name.
Не that has an ill name is half hanged.
Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the "guilty" list.
A stich in time saves nine.
Beauty is ten, nine of which is dressing.
Courage is ten, nine is the ability to escape.
Give nine, save ten.
Man only ever scores nine out of ten.
Nine is near ten.
A cat has nine lives; for three he plays, for three he strays, and for the last three he stays.
It takes nine months to have a baby, no matter how many people you put on the job.
Wisdom consists of ten parts -- nine parts of silence and one part with few words.
A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine.
After eating nine hundred rats, the cat is now going on a pilgrimage.
Nine gamblers could not feed a single rooster.
A stitch in time saves nine.
Nine days wonders are forgotten soon after that.
Seven's a banquet nine a brawl.
A cat has nine lives.
The dragon has nine sons, each different from the others.
Whoever tells the truth is chased out of nine villages.
Possession is nine tenths of the law.
Eight lives for the men and nine for the women.
A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine.
Saints sleep three hours, merchants sleep five, ordinary people seven and the lazy sleep nine.
To rise at five, dine at nine, sup at five, go to bed at nine, makes a man live to ninety-nine.
Possession is nine points of the law.
Nine tailors make a man.
Parsley seed goes nine times to the Devil.
They will expel him who speaks the truth from nine villages.
Out of ten men there are nine wives.
Seven is company, and nine confusion.
A woman hath nine lives like a cat.
The law is read in nine ways and always right.
One bad word beats nine good words.
In New England we have nine months of winter and three months of darned poor sledding.
A stitch in time saves nine.
Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety nine percent perspiration.
The cat has nine lives: three for playing, three for straying, three for staying.
A cat has nine lives.
A cat has nine lives.
Wonder lasts but nine nights in a Town.
A stitch in due time saves nine.
Nine other flavors and the taste of shit the tenth.
Give nine, save ten.
Though near shore, you're still in the ocean.
A good friend is better than a near relation.
‘so near and yet so far,' said the man when the bird lit on his gun.
The church is near, but the way is icy. The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully.
He who is near the church is often far from God.
Fisherman near fisherman. Hunter near hunter.
Look to your near neighbour rather than to your distant brother.
Nine is near ten.
If you come near the river, you will hear the crab cough.
If you go too near your relatives, they will not respect you.
He who stays near vermilion gets stained red; he who stays near ink gets stained black.
Afar, it enraptures the heart, when near, it rends the gallbladder.
He who stands near the woodcutter is likely to be hit by a splinter.
When one foot stumbles, the other is near falling.
The fox does not prey near his hole.
A dull ass near home trots without the stick.
A near neighbour is better than a distant cousin.
Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin.
He who climbs to high is near a fall.
Near is my petticoat but nearer is my smock.
Who seeks a quarrel will find it near at hand.
In a restaurant choose a table near a waiter.
Work doesn't scare him, but he could lay down near it and sleep.
The church is near but the road is icy; the bar is far away but I'll walk carefully.
The fact that you have gone near the battle-field does not mean that you fought.
Staying near the anthill turned the antelope brown.
Distant hills look beautiful; near ones are ugly.
Live near water, and ask not about sustenance.
The beggar that begs near another beggar will never be rich.
A boy living near a buddhist temple can learn an untaught sutra by heart.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
Better do a kindness near home than go far to burn incense.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
Far waters cannot quench near fires.
Though you live near a forest, do not waste firewood.
In a strange land one should always move near one's kinsmen.
Instead of being near a pagan you rather be near an animal.
A rat never goes near a cat's celebration venue.
Living near a lake doesn't mean you eat fish whenever you need.
Crotch seam rivet in original Levi's dropped due to pain from standing near fires.
Great estates may venture more; little boats must keep near shore.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all sit near him.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin.
Drive not away what never came near you.
It is good to swim near a boat.
Praise the sea but keep near land.
Better a distant good than a near evil.
Better a near neighbour than a distant cousin.
Near the church far from God.
God did not create woman from man's head, that he should command her, nor from his feet, that she should be his slave, but rather from his side, that she should be near his heart.
Near is my coat, but nearer is my shirt.
Near is my doublet, but nearer is my smock.
Though near be the stone to the ground, closer is the help of coivi.
Who builds on sand, the fall is near.
When the hunting dog barks it's a signal that the prey is near.
When death is near, neither doctors nor medicine help.
Flies don't get near a boiling pot.
He that hath a head of butter must not come near the oven.
Near is my kirkle, but nearer is my smock.
He who has a head of wax must not go near the fire.
The elbow is near, but try and bite it.
Your elbow is near but you can't bite it.
Who goes near soot smells of soot, and who goes near musk smells of musk.
Fruit of a tree falls near its roots.
Near the dry, the damp will burn.
A tree near the road is easily cut down.
Wherever a man dwells, he shall be sure to have a thorn-bush near his door.
The most pleasant cruise is near the land; the most inviting walk near the sea.
Live near a lame man, and you will soon learn to limp.
Virtue, which parleys, is near a surrender.
We are as near to heaven by sea as by land! (Humphrey Gilbert)
Those who live near the water look into the mountains. They don't look in their own direction.
No where's near land.
To be sure that your friend is a friend, you must go with him on a journey, travel with him day and night, go with him near and far.
The sea of bitterness has no bounds - repent and the shore is near.
The best fish swim near the bottom.
Не that is afraid of wounds must not come near a battle.
A fat kitchen is near to poverty.
A near neighbour is better than a far-dwelling kinsman.
Follow not truth too near the heels, lest it dash out thy teeth.
Let never sorrow come sae near your heart.
Even a log soaked in water will burn if it is placed near a fire.
He who has a wax head must not go near the fire.
Fidelity is a noble virtue, yet justice is nobler still.
Noble and common blood is of the same color.
Noble is, that noble does.
There is nothing noble in being superior to some other man. The true nobility is in being superior to your previous self.
Be straightforward in all your dealing and noble with strangers.
He is noble who performs noble deeds.
Nobleness is not noble ancestry.
Nothing is more noble than politeness, and nothing more ridiculous than ceremony.
Even the high and noble bow before the barber.
The more noble the more humble.
Noble deeds are done in silence.
Gold's father is dirt, yet it regards itself as noble.
The most noble dog can only bark.
A noble prince or king never has a coin to bless himself.
Be humble for you are made of earth. Be noble for you are made of stars.
If your conduct be noble, you will be a king.
Make thyself a noble man before advising others.
Man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave. (Thomas Browne)
Like a shadow in the morning, the friendship of the ignoble man is great at first, then gradually decreases and disappears. Like a shadow in the after noon, the friendship of the noble man is small at first, then gradually increases.
Better a noble death than a wretched life.
Rockstone a riva battam noh know' sun hot.
Mi come here fi drink milk, mi noh come here fi count cow.
Cuss-cuss noh bore hole a mi skin.
Howdy an ‘tenk yu, noh brok noh square.
We run t'ings, t'ings noh run we.
Man noh done cross riva, noh fi cuss alligator long mout long.
A noh every mango got maggige.
A noh siame diay leaf drop a river bottom it rotten.
Lickle bit a ram goat have beard an' big dull noh have nun.
Man noh dead, noh call ‘im duppy.
When yu go a jackass yard, yu noh fi chat 'bout big iyaz.
Noh cup noh brok, noh coffee noh trow weh.
Alle Wähg goont noh Rom.
Noh put yu cap wh? yu caang reach it.
An oven and mill are nurseries of news.
Bad news is the first to come.
To spread the news is to multiply it.
Bad news goes about in clogs, good news in stockinged feet.
Bad news has wings.
Buy on the rumor; sell on the news.
The costly news of today will be free tomorrow.
News that's for money today will be for free tomorrow.
For news of the heart, ask the face.
Good news crawls on its belly; bad news has wings.
When an oxhorn of a news man is sounded, something is wrong.
Bad news travels fast.
No news is good news.
He that brings good news, knocks hard.
If you will learn news, you must go to the oven or the mill.
Bad news travels fast.
When asked, "What news from the sea?” The fish replied "I have a lot to say, but my mouth is full of water.”.
The news of a good deed travels far, but the news of a bad one travels even farther.
Go abroad and you'll hear news of home.
Better to take your time on the way, if you bring good news.
The earth has ears, news has wings.
Bad news is always true.
News don't lack a carrier.
A bad rumor is better than bad news.
Death is always news.
News does not sleep on the way.
It is the traveller who carries the news.
When a dog bites a man, that is not news; but when a man bites a dog, that is news.
Dead news, like dead love, has no phoenix in its ashes.
Go abroad and you'll hear news of home.
Do not buy either the moon or the news, for in the end they will both come out.
He knocks boldly at the door who brings good news.
Ill news comes apace.
Ill news travels fast.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant. Spreading the news is also multiplying it.
Bad news proceeds by wings, good news hardly walks.
Ill news is too often true.
No news is good news.
The sun never sets without fresh news.
Good news always comes from far away.
He knocks boldly at the door who brings good news.
Put something sweet in his mouth and send good news to the heart.
He that telleth his wife news is but lately married.
As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far place.
The news has gone round and round, yet the person it concerns is deaf.
I'll no tell a lee for scant o' news.
A friend in need is a friend in deed.
He that has a white horse and a fair wife need never want for trouble.
There is no need for fish in an empty pond.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
It takes two days to learn everything about a man; to know animals you will need more time.
In the ocean, one does not need to sow water.
A friend in need, is a friend indeed.
Friendship does not need pepper to cry.
The strong don't need clubs.
Need teaches things unlawful.
To set fire to the wood, you need the help of the wind.
Make a friend when you don't need one.
If you buy things you don't need, you will soon be selling things you do need.
Need is not governed by the law.
Need is a bad negotiator.
A friend when in need is a faithful friend.
When the snake is in the house, one need not discuss the matter at length.
Truth does not need many words.
If you have, give; if you need, seek.
Rocks need no protection from the rain.
One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food.
You can't feed your donkey only when you need to ride it.
If you buy things you don't need, you are stealing from yourself.
If you have a bulldozer, you don't need a snow shovel.
What is done under the four moons need never be recalled nor regretted.
A good religion does not need miracles.
When a man is coming toward you, you need not say, "Come here."
To get through the hardest journey we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping.
Never has a man more need of his intelligence than when a fool asks him a question.
God isn't in need of our prayers.
That which is obvious does not need to be explained.
Before borrowing money from a friend decide which you need most.
Never lend that thing you most need.
He who sups with the devil has need of a long spoon.
I got you, O! worshiper of the helper, to help me but you are in need of help.
Need excavates the trick.
You need a brother, without one you're like a person rushing to battle without a weapon.
He that desires but little has no need of much.
Charity sees the need not the cause.
Everybody knows good counsel except him who has need of it.
Charity looks at the need, not at the cause.
If you have a good friend, you don't need a mirror.
There's no need to fear the wind if your haystacks are tied down.
There is no need like the lack of a friend.
If all men were just, there would be no need of valour.
It is better in times of need to have a friend rather than money.
Why would a pool that doesn't have water need so many frogs?
Send a man of sense on the embassy, and you need not instruct him.
He who has four and spends five, has no need of a purse.
You need not find a shelter for an old ox.
If marriage were a good thing, it wouldn't need witnesses.
A good painter need not give a name to his picture, a bad one must.
Innocence itself sometimes hath need of a mask.
He that is bald headed has no need of combs.
He who has a true friend, has no need of a mirror.
Buy what you have no need of and ere long you shall sell your necessaries.
Every ten years one man has need of another.
A great liar has need of good memory.
A good horse and a bad horse need the spur; a good woman and a bad woman need the stick.
No need to say "trot” to a good horse.
To be lucky you need a little wit.
Who buys hath need of eyes.
When in need, you shall know a friend.
May the lord grant me a sword and no need to use it.
You don't need intelligence to have luck, but you do need luck to have intelligence.
Luck brings friends, need tries them.
Little snakes need to grow in hiding.
He who has a dog need not bark himself.
There is no need to feed the dog that follows.
Who does not want to work, need not to eat.
Often does one desire what one does not need.
If you want to live to be old you need to start early.
It is written in sacred scripture: where grass is growing you don't need fertilizer.
Who gives in need, gives double.
No need to plough and sow madmen, they grow by themselves.
If you ever need a helping hand you'll find one at the end of your arm.
Who buys wants a hundred eyes, who sells need have but one.
Learn who are your friends when you are in need.
At shrove-tide every one had need of his frying-pan.
To be a smart man you need to be humble.
We only call our friends if we need help, and we don't help our friends in need.
Do not spit into the well that you might need to drink out of.
You need a sharp axe for a tough bough.
He that is more civil than usual, either wants to cozen you or has need of you.
You don't need a candle to look for a fool.
If you say that he is guilty of ingratitude, you need say no more.
Take only what you need and leave the land as you found it.
A rocky vinyard does not need a prayer, but a pick ax.
Take care of your pennies and your dollars will take care of your widow's next husband.
A person stands next to a shade not next to words.
Better an egg this year than a chicken next year.
Eternal peace lasts only until the next war.
I will charge thee nothing but the promise that thee will help the next man thee finds in trouble.
If a man looks upon your wife pluck out his eye and cook it in a goodly stew. If he eats the stew his manhood will wither and fall off in the next moon.
Nothing in this world is certain but death and next winter's snows.
If two selfish young men sit next to a pot of water, the water spills out on the ground.
If the young palm tree wants to stay alive, it grows next to the odum tree.
Joy and sorrow are next door neighbors.
The debts go to the next heir.
He who has a good next, finds good friends.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
A fat kitchen is next door to poverty.
A crow sits next to a crow.
The luck of idle men sits next to them.
If the owner of two adjacent farms cannot be friends, then they must wait till their next reincarnation to be able to make friends.
When the next house is on fire, 'tis high time to look to your own.
Although he comes and cuts me down, I'll grow next spring.
The best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago; the next best time is now.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
Cleanliness is next to godliness.
A man who will go mad next year starts to roll up his sleeves this year.
A husband and wife often fight intensely at one moment and then kiss intensely at the next moment.
One generation plants the trees, the next eats the fruit.
One generation builds the street on which the next will walk.
The first day you see a friend; the next day, a brother.
If you give a handshake to the leopard, next time he will come for an embrace.
Don't throw away your nets if you catch nothing, you never know what the gods are planning next.
You may say the cassava in your mouth is bitter, but it is only looking at the next one.
A good friend is someone who will bail you out of jail, but your best friend is the one sitting next to you saying "that was fucking awesome”.
The deities of one age are the bywords of the next.
Buying on credit is robbing next year's crop.
Danger is next neighbour to security.
Danger is next neighbor to security.
Lying and stealing are next door neighbors.
The next mile is the only one a person really has to make.
If you come up in this world, be sure not to go down in the next.
The wolf told the dog: It does not matter that I run and you follow me, what matters is that when I turn around you will be next to me.
He who has scalded himself once blows the next time.
The next time ye dance, wit whom ye take by the hand.
If you find "Miss This Year" beautiful, then you'll find "Miss Next Year" even more so.
Next to fire, straw isn't good.
Better to sit next to someone taking a shit rather than someone carving stone.
When bale is hext, boot is next.
First a turnip, then a sheep; next a cow, and then the gallows.
All things of this world are nothing, unless they have reference to the next.
Fire is next akin to smoke.
A fly before his own eye is bigger than an elephant in the next field.
Today's beneficiary is the incarnation of his preexisting well-doer; the fate of one's next existence lies in his existence today.
The deities of one age are the bywords of the next.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
If you're Heelant you're next door to the Fifer.
Seize the day." By Horace, Odes I,11,8, to Leuconoe: carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero ("take hold of the day, believing as little as possible in the next"). The verb "carpere" has the literal meaning "to pick, pluck," particularly in reference to the picking of fruits and flowers, and was used figuratively by the Roman poets to mean "to enjoy, use, make use of.
Mother Nature, time and patience are the three best doctors.
Experience is the comb that nature gives us when we are bald.
What nature gives us is not refused.
A hawk kills because it is his nature; a man because it is his pleasure.
Nature gave us two cheeks instead of one to make it easier to eat hot food.
In nature, there is no such thing as a lawn.
Everyone must pay his debt to nature.
Self-preservation is the first law of nature.
Nature will come through the claws, and the hound will follow the hare.
Nature breaks through the eyes of the cat.
Nature shines through the cat's eyes.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue; to the end we should hear and see more than we speak.
It is the nature of the greyhound to carry a long tail.
Blaming your faults on your nature does not change the nature of your faults.
Habit becomes second nature.
If someone isn't handsome by nature, it's useless for them to wash over and over again.
A father is a banker provided by nature.
Where man is not, nature is barren.
Touching the earth equates to having harmony with nature.
When a man moves from nature, his heart becomes hard.
Listen to the voice of nature, For it holds treasures for you.
Nature decays, but latinum lasts forever.
Even if you hide yourself from the world, don't lose sight of your real nature.
A woman gets thirty percent of her beauty from nature and seventy percent from makeup.
Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald.
Nature is better than a middling doctor.
Living at a river, one comes to know the nature of the fish therein; Dwelling by a mountain, one learns to recognize the language of the birds thereupon.
Nature, time and patience are the three great physicians.
Rivers and mountains may change; human nature, never.
Human nature is the same all the world over.
Art is the right hand of nature.
Whatever nature does least, man does most.
Nature, time, and patience are three great physicians.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Nature is the true law.
He who lives according to nature will never be poor, and he who lives according to opinion will never be rich.
It is pride, not nature, that craves much.
Habbit is a second nature.
Speaking comes by nature, silence by understanding.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue.
Where Nature stops folly begins.
Nature and love cannot be hid.
Nature draws stronger than seven oxen.
Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald.
Nature does nothing in vain.
Custom is a second nature.
Talking comes by nature, silence by wisdom.
Good nature without prudence is foolishness.
Never take for granted a quiet person, for he may have qualities that belie his quiet nature.
Never underestimate a quiet person, for he may have qualities that belie his quiet nature.
Custom in infancy becomes nature in old age.
The wolf changes his coat but not his nature.
Habit is second nature.
A cautious man will observe the indications of character which nature reveals in others.
To whiten ivory with dye is to spoil nature by art.
You are his father by nature, I by counsel.
Nature, to be commanded, must be obeyed. (Francis Bacon)
One cannot change nature.
It's the nature that draws the woodpecker's fledgling to the tree.
Happy is the man to whom nature has given a sufficiency with even a sparing hand.
Inferior men do not begin undertakings for fear of difficulties. Average men begin, but desist once difficulties appear. Men of superior nature never give up until they achieve their ends, however many the difficulties that appear.
Meaning: Nature can help and harm you. The people (the water) can raise someone (a boat) to power, but can also take that power away (sinking the boat).
Human nature is the same all the world over.
Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.
He who lives according to nature will never be poor.
Nature comes before teaching.
Art improves nature.
Nurture passes nature.
Use fertilizer to change the course of nature.
Is like tomcat by nature.
Custom becomes law.custom in infancy becomes nature in old age.
Nature is our mother.
God and nature do not work together in vain.
It's a brave bird that makes its nest in the cat's ear.
He lays his eggs beside his nest.
Fire drives the wasp out of its nest.
In his own nest a beetle is a sultan.
You must kill the hornets to get rid of the nest.
A talkative bird will not build a nest.
A chattering bird builds no nest.
An ant's nest could bring down a hill.
By going and coming, a bird weaves its nest.
By coming and going, a bird constructs its nest.
You'll not find a thrush in a hawk's nest.
Little by little, the bird builds her nest.
The nest made, the bird dead.
God gives food to every bird, but does not throw it into the nest.
Anger is as a stone cast into a wasp's nest.
God gives every bird his worm, but he does not throw it into the nest.
Loneliness is a nest for the thoughts.
It is by the strength of their number that the ants in the field are able to carry their prey to the nest.
Conscience is the nest where all good is hatched.
You can stop a bird from flying over you, but you can't stop it building a nest.
When a bird builds its nest it uses the feathers of other birds.
Slowly but surely, the bird builds its nest.
Jaybird don't rob his own nest.
A bird will always use another birds' feathers to feather its own nest.
The jay bird don't rob his own nest.
The bird has no nest, but a branch to rest on.
The wolf and the shaman are of one nest.
If the building of a nest were easy, would the little "apatipers" bird roost in the fork of a tree?
In the broken nest there are no whole eggs.
A bird with fire on its tail burns its own nest.
You can't keep the birds from flying over your head, but you can keep them from building a nest in your hair.
A little bird wants but a little nest.
A kind word can attract even the snake from his nest.
It is a bold mouse that makes her nest in the cat's ear.
God gives every bird its food, but does not throw it into the nest.
A bird may be ever so small, it always seeks a nest of its own.
The hen likes to lay in a nest where there are eggs already.
The nest is enough for a wren.
Prepare a nest for the hen and she will lay eggs for you.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
Have not all your eggs in one nest.
There are no birds in last year's nest.
It is an ugly bird that defiles its own nest.
He puts his hand into a wasp's nest.
Little by little, the bird builds its nest.
It is better to attract two birds to the nest than one.
It's a poor bird that fouls its own nest.
You can't prevent a bird from flying over your head, but you can prevent him from making a nest in your head.
The pigeon brings the makings and the chick makes the nest.
A bird has a nest, man has a home.
By slow degrees the bird builds his nest.
Little by little the bird builds its nest.
Little bird, little nest.
Build but one nest in one tree.
It is a foul bird that fills his own nest.
What mare's nest hast thou found?
It is in minne fûgel dy't syn eigen nêst besmoarget.
Empty like the cuckoo's nest.
In a broken nest there are few whole eggs.
Little by little the bird builds its nest.
How well I feathered my nest.
It is a foolish bird that soils its own nest.
He's a hawk of a right nest.
It is a nasty bird that files its ain nest.
The bird ought not to soil its own nest.
Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night.
He that will be rich before night, may be hanged before noon.
Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.
If you get a reputation as an early riser, you can sleep till noon.
She who laughs not in the morning, laughs not at noon.
Radish is poison in the morning, food at noon and medicine in the evening.
As fair greits the bairn that is dung after noon, as he that is dung before noon.
He rises over early that is hangit ere noon.
He rises early that is hanged before noon.
He that will be rich before night, may be hanged before noon.
A sailor must have his eye trained to the rocks and sands as well as the north star.
It is the great north wind that made the Vikings.
In the South they don't care how close you get, as long as you don't get too high. In the North, they don't care how high you get, as long as you don't get too close.
Salt comes from north, gold from south and silver from the land of Whites, but the Word of God, the famous things, histories and fairy tales, we only find them in Timbuktu.
Sow with the Sirocco but not with the North wind.
Empty stalks from the Sirocco and full spikes of wheat with the North Wind.
If the North Wind takes to blowing, it will rain for a week.
The north wind is a satisfying wind; the south wind is harmful to man. The east wind is a rain-bearing wind; the west wind is greater than those who live there. The east wind is a wind of prosperity, the friend of Naram-Suen.
It is the great north wind that made the Vikings.
A bush does note grow berries in winter.
When a musician hath forgotten his note, He makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat.
The bird is known by his note, the man by his words.
We note the faults of others and forget our own.
There never was a five-pound note but there was a ten-pound road for it.
A bird is distinguished by its note.
The owl has one note, the crow another.
A bird is known by his note and a man by his talk.
The bird is known by his note, the man by his words.
Don't notice the tiny flea in the other person's hair and overlook the lumbering yak on your own nose.
Long foretold, long last; short notice, soon past.
We notice faults of others and easily forget our own.
No one will notice in the dark.
Take no notice of the stupid things people say.
You notice what I drink, and not the thirst I feel.
A dog in a kennel barks at his fleas; a dog hunting does not notice them.
Don't notice the tiny flea in the other person's hair.
If you want to know what a man is really like, notice how he acts when he loses money.
The afterthought is good for nought, except it be to catch blind horses with.
Work for nought makes folks dead lazy.
Who cannot fight, wins nought by right.
Who lends his lips to nought but blame, has in his heart no love of fame.
To-day's sorrow brings nought to-morrow.
Good words cost nought.
When in doubt, do nought.
Nought is good for the eyes, but not for the stomach.
Nought is never in danger.
Better aught than nought.
Nought lay down, nought take up.
Beauty but bounty avails nought.
Better lang little, then soon right nought.
It's no for nought that the gled whistles.
When nought comes to aught, it does not know itself.
The child looks everywhere and often sees nought, the old man, sitting on the ground, sees everything.
The child looks everywhere and often sees nought, the old man.
Security is nowhere safe.
When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down.
The clock ticks nowhere else the way it does at home.
To talk much and arrive nowhere is the same as climbing a tree to catch a fish.
Worry is like a rocking chair it swings you back and forth and it takes you nowhere.
Speed will get you nowhere if you are headed in the wrong direction.
You can go home when you can go nowhere else.
He who is everywhere, is nowhere.
He who would be everywhere will be nowhere.
Who is everywhere is nowhere.
The devil dances nowhere as much as between a couple.
Flattery will get you nowhere.
He who sows everywhere harvests nowhere.
No wind is of service to him that is bound for nowhere.
When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down.
If you are on a road to nowhere, find another road.
Flattery will get you nowhere.
Flattery will get you nowhere.
Keep good men company, and you shall be of the number.
With great men one must allow five to be an even number.
Keep good company and you shall be of the number.
Keep company with good men, and you'll increase their number.
The heap of yams you will reap depends upon the number of mounds you have plowed.
It is by the strength of their number that the ants in the field are able to carry their prey to the nest.
After your daughter is married, there comes a number of potential sons-in-law.
Look after number one.
Keep not ill company lest you increase the number.
Our elders quote the cock as saying that "it would not be good if one becomes the only person in the world, and that is why they crow every morning to show their number".
The evil weed produces the largest number of weeds.
The eggs of the brood need to be an odd number.
Take care of number one.
Although the number of unhappy days is endless, yet life is better than death.
A patient that can swallow food makes the nurse doubtful.
A single hand can not nurse a child.
It is not hard to nurse a pregnency, but it is hard to bring up a child.
Solitude is the nurse of wisdom.
When one hand is injured the other nurses it, when both hands are injured they nurse each other.
One kisses the nurse for the sake of the child.
When the child is weaned, they say goodbye to the nurse.
When the child is weened, the nurse is fired.
Many caress the child for the sake of the wet nurse.
Many who kiss the child mean the nurse.
Nurse, you are mistress whilst the child sucks, and after that nothing.
Man who wants pretty nurse, must be patient.
If you give people nuts, you'll get shells thrown at you.
When the palm nuts ripen, you carry half and I carry half.
Even if the old woman has no teeth, her tiger nuts remain in her own bag.
God gives the nuts, but he doesn't crack them.
God gives nuts to who has no teeth.
God has given nuts to some who have no teeth.
If you give a man nuts then give him something to crack them with.
Women, asses, and nuts, require strong hands.
A toad too would like to crack nuts, but he has no teeth.
You cannot eat nuts without breaking some shells.
Almond nuts come to those who have no teeth.
I don't sow ground nuts when the monkey is watching.
God gives us nuts but he does not crack them for us.
You must crack the nuts before you can eat the kernel.
Things for children, apple, almonds and hazel nuts.
The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth.
If you have ground nuts in your room expect rats.
The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth.
However long the night, the dawn will always break.
Under the mountains is silver and gold, But under the night sky, hunger and cold.
No matter how long the night, the day is sure to come.
He who led me in the night, will be thanked by me at daybreak.
Even the night has ears.
Who throws stones at night, kills his own brother.
A mother's wrath does not survive the night.
The day did not know that night had fallen.
The darkness of night cannot stop the light of morning.
The night hides a world, but reveals a universe.
At night all cats are brown.
There is no day without its night.
Since love departs at dawn, create, O God, a night that has no morn.
It is hard for an ex-king to become a night watchman.
Virginity can be lost in one night.
A woman's beauty cannot warm a winter's night.
If you go out a lot at night, you will probably meet ghosts.
A bad day never hath a good night.
Daylight follows a dark night.
The night forms a cover for sinners.
The day cuts off the promise of the night.
A lonely old crow, see someone you know, Fly to your right, sure to be right, And if you are hawking, money before night.
Men have thought about their marriage a whole year long - and it lasts but one night.
If at noon the King declares it is night, behold the stars.
Moral people sleep well at night, but the immoral seem to get pleasure from the waking hours much more.
To spend the night in anger is better than to spend it repenting.
The night is the king of the shadows.
The night rinses what the day has soaped.
He who spends a night with a chicken will cackle in the morning.
He who wants to be famous will have many a sleepless night.
You should have done it on the wedding night, you fool.
What you cannot see during the day, you will not see at night.
A fat woman warms even the coldest the night.
Better to sit all night than to go to bed with a dragon.
If you carry treasure, don't travel at night.
Day has its eyes, night has its ears.
Concealing truth is like wearing embroidered clothes and traveling by night.
The jail is closed day and night and always full; temples are always open and still empty.
The first half of the night, think of your own faults; the second half, the faults of others.
The night may be dark, but the apples have been counted.
A day without work can yield a night without sleep.
If you sing before breakfast, you'll cry before night.
Night brings the cows home.
Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night.
He that will be rich before night, may be hanged before noon.
You may preach ever so long to the wolf, he will nevertheless call for the lamb before night.
Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.
Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning.
By night all cats are grey.
Except for the night, we could never know the stars.
Counterfeit coin passes current at night.
The night is good counsellor.
A guest sticks a nail in the wall even if he stays but one night.
By night all cats are black.
Every day has its night.
If you wake up in the morning and feel no pain, it is to be feared that you died in the night.
When a woman has ten children, there is nothing that happens in the night that she does not know about.
He who does not lose his way by night will not lose his way by day.
At night all women are alike.
It's because the rat knows what he does at night that he doesn't go out during day.
What darg see him bark all night, ramgoat see it no trouble him.
Di daakes' part a di night, a when diay soon light.
The great night that provides, the great day that neglects.
There are seven different kind of weather in one autumn night.
A fat woman warms the night.
When you work with anxiety during the day, you'll sit up at night with your thoughts.
On the gallows, the first night is the worst.
By day they're ready to divorce, by night they're ready for bed.
The night might be long, but whether you want it or not, the day will announce itself.
God spends the day elsewhere, but he always spends the night in rwanda.
Boast during the day; be humble at night.
Roasted locusts eaten at night bring dangerous dreams.
Darkness and night are mothers of thought.
Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.
Barnaby bright, Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night.
Everything may be bought except day and night.
Wait until it is night before saying that it has been a fine day.
God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night.
A blustering night, a fair day follows.
A decision made at night may be changed in the morning.
Sing before breakfast, cry before night.
The night brings counsel.
The night has ears.
Day and night cannot dwell together.
Four thousand throats may be cut in one night by a running man.
The sun shines during the day, not at night.
My treasures do not chink or glitter. They gleam in the sun and neigh in the night.
A well educated man always has a kind word to say about the place where he spends the night.
The stars make no noise.
Pigs in the cold and men in drink make a great noise.
Clapping with the right hand only will not produce a noise.
It's the empty can that makes the most noise.
A poor man's debt makes a great noise.
Empty barrels and insignificant people always make the most noise.
Empty vessels make most noise.
It is a good file that cuts iron without making a noise.
The full cask makes no noise.
Empty barrel mek de mos' noise.
It's the empty can that makes the most noise.
One penny in the pot makes more noise than when it is full.
The worst wheel makes most noise.
Much noise from nothing.
Debts are like children: the smaller they are the more noise they make.
A blow with a reed makes a noise but hurts not.
The smith's dog sleeps at the noise of the hammer, and wakes at the grinding of teeth.
The deepest waters make the least noise.
Empty vessels make much noise.
You can't blame the axe for the noise made by the chicken you are about to slaughter.
Clapping with the right hand only will not make a noise.
Along silence followed by mighty noise.
Noise and hunting don't go together.
If you want to clean the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away.
An empty can makes a lot of noise.
It is the trapped animal that makes the most noise.
Time is a file that wears and makes no noise.
Empty waggons make most noise.
Much noise and little wool, said the devil, when he was shearing the sow.
What grows makes no noise.
The anvil is used to noise.
Where the river is deepest it makes the least noise.
Where there are women and geese, there wants no noise.
Empty barrels make the most noise.
Where the stream is shallowest, greatest is its noise.
Every new broom makes noise.
Wind makes more noise among the trees.
An empty barrel makes a lot of noise.
Empty casks make the most noise.
It's the grinding of his teeth that awakes the blacksmith's dog, not the noise of the hammer.
A great anvil fears not noise.
An empty vessel makes the most noise.
An empty pot makes the loudest noise.
When the river is deepest it makes least noise.
If you want to clear the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away.
You dont throw stones at an approching craclin noise in the bush wait and see what is it first.
Time is a file that wears and makes no noise.
Literal tranlation: A lot of noise, little wool.
A vessel filled with water does not make a noise when shaken.
One palm nut cannot be peeled twice.
Even though the peel of the palm nut has no pulpy substance in it, it is stripped off all the same.
Every one hates the red ant on a kola nut because he cannot eat or sell it.
Those who get their kola nut cracked by the spirit should should not forget to be humble.
He that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He that wants the kernel must crack the nut.
Before the nut is cooked, a sesame is burnt.
He that is won with a nut, may be lost with an apple.
The teeth are not match for the nut.
The kola nut stays longer in the mouths of those who value it.
The ant that destroys a kola nut lives inside it.
A kola nut is small, but it is more important that it goes round to each person and not that it fills the stomach.
Even a blind squirrel finds a nut once in a while.
Must is a hard nut.
Every wind does not shake down the nut.
A nut is good if broken, a women if beaten.
Who will eat the kernel of the nut must break the shell.
Nut and fig trees need to be pruned aggressively.
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
If you don't crack the shell, you can't eat the nut.
I would not purchase it at the price of a rotten nut.
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
She's a nut.
Не that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He that wad eat the kernel maun crack the nut.
A friend to all is a friend to none.
A lie has many variations, the truth none.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
One who prevades the great universe is seen by none unless a man knows the unfolding of love.
You cannot buy wisdom abroad if there is none at home.
To have two eyes is cause for pride; but to have one eye is better than to have none.
He who hunts two rats, catches none.
I have lanced many boils, but none pained like my own.
Voice of one, voice of none.
A bad excuse is better than none.
A favor given to man is appreciated by none.
None of us knows who we are.
The soup would be none the worse for more meat.
None so keen at the hunting of wolves as the dog with wolf blood.
For every evil under the sun there is a remedy or there is none.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
He makes a hundred knives, none of which has a handle.
A golden bit makes none the better horse.
If you've money, take a seat; it you've none, take to your feet.
Neutrals tread on eggs and break none.
A Good son needs no inheritance, the bad needs none.
Sharing the figs can leave you with none at all.
It dawns none the sooner for all one's early rising.
He who has none hates those that have much.
One may teach another to speak, but none can teach another to hold his peace.
Every one likes justice in another's house, none in his own.
The whole hog or none.
There's none so blind as those who will not see.
Many a friend has been lost by a jest, but none has ever been got by one.
He who does not mend his clothes will soon have none.
If work were good for you, the rich would leave none for the poor.
Lilly billy-goat hab beard by big bull hab none.
Where money is lacking, none enters.
For all one's early rising, it dawns none the sooner.
None so deaf as those who would not hear.
One who looks for a friend without faults will have none.
There are none so deaf as those who will not hear advice.
Let none put faith in the first sown fruit.
None so blind as those who won't see.
There can be no offense where none is taken.
Who has children cannot long remain poor; who has none cannot long remain rich.
A diamond with a flaw is preferable to a common stone with none.
The greatest of all faults is to be conscious of none.
Many hens may be in love with one cock, but none will be jealous of the other.
Advice to all, security for none.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
There are many kinds of fruit that grow on the tree of life, but none so sweet as friendship.
None are deceived but they that confide.
None are so blind as those who refuse to see.
Anyone can start a rumor, but none can stop one.
Education is a gift that none can take away.
Naught's a naught and figger's a figger – all for the white man and none for the nigger.
None but the wise man can employ leisure well.
Advise none to marry or go to war.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
None so deaf as those who will not hear.
You'll beguile none but those that trust you.
Advice to all, security for none.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
None knows the weight of another's burden.
A small bolt to the house is better than none at all.
All wish to live long, but none to be called old.
None so deaf as those who won't hear.
You cannot take a cow from a man who has none.
No man is so tall that he need never stretch and none so small that he need never stoop.
Who makes no promises, has none to perform.
He who forces love when none is found, remains a fool the whole year round.
Where there's money, there is the devil; but where there's none, a greater evil.
He who undertakes too many jobs does none.
The greyhound that starts many hares kills none.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
A golden bit makes none the better horse.
None so deaf as he that will not hear.
He who esteems none but himself is as happy as a king.
Many a friend was lost through a joke, but none was ever gained so.
Tongue breaks bone and herself has none.
Truth finds foes, where it makes none.
Better a bare foot than none.
One and none is all one.
None more bare than the shoemaker's wife and the smith's mare.
There's none so deaf as those who will not hear.
None says his garner is full.
None so old that he hopes not for a year of life.
Today a man, tomorrow none.
There would be no slanderers if none would listen to them.
He who hath gold hath fear, and he who hath none has sorrow.
They are good willy of their Horse that hes none.
If hunger forces a farmer in a particular year to eat both his yam tubers and the seed-yams, the succeeding years would still be worse because he would have no yams to eat and none to plant.
Nobody walks with another man's gait.
You arrive mr. Big shot but leave mr. Nobody.
A blind man sat behind a pile of stones and thought that nobody could see him.
Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son.
Nobody knows the mysteries which lie at the bottom of the ocean..
An empty belly hears nobody.
All lizards lie on their bellies, but nobody knows which of them suffers stomach ache.
Nobody hates himself more than he who hates others.
When we sing everybody hears us; when we sigh, nobody hears us.
Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat.
He who assists everybody assists nobody.
Nobody leaves this world alive.
Nobody wants to buy a sleeping horse.
Nobody lives in another person's head.
There's nobody can prevent you getting into heaven, but there are many always ready to give you a shove into hell.
A secret for two, soon a secret for nobody.
Nobody will cut a head off except the one who put it on.
Nobody will plough the land except its cows.
Nobody tells all he knows.
Nobody mourns an unnoticed death.
Nobody is shamed twice.
The goat says: "nobody willingly walks to his own death.”.
The antics of a market buffoon provide laughter, but nobody prays that his child becomes the market buffoon.
Nobody has ever bet enough on a winning horse.
He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody.
It is an equal failing to trust everybody and to trust nobody.
Nobody is to blame for all.
Nobody so wise but has a little folly to spare.
We became gravediggers but nobody dies anymore.
A hungry belly hears nobody.
In a breadless home, everyone complains and nobody is right.
Nobody knows who is he, even if he is under his father's ears.
Nobody lift the dog's tail when it defecates.
Self-love nobody else's love.
Nobody goes to another monastery with one's own charter.
A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody.
A friend to everybody and to nobody is the same thing.
A shock dog is starved and nobody believes it.
Nobody is to eat the morsel of someone else.
Nobody gets out of the bed to sleep on the floor.
A jack of both sides, is before long, trusted by nobody, and abused by both parties.
Nobody can see his own goodness: it can be seen only by others.
It is an ill wind that blows nobody any good.
Nobody wages war with ghosts.
A river doesn't run straight because there was nobody to advise it.
Never try to prove what nobody doubts.
Nobody gets out of the bed to sleep on the floor.
If mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
Everybody says it, nobody knows it.
It is an ill wind that blows nobody good.
He who would serve everybody gets thanks from nobody.
Everybody says it, nobody knows it.
Money swore an oath that nobody that did not love it should ever have it.
Sorrow, nobody dies about it.
Everybody wants to be somebody; nobody wants to grow.
Nobody sees a miracle from this shrine.
It is a bad game where nobody wins.
Time passes, it waits for nobody.
Nobody can slip out of his own skin.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Nobody calls another's father ‘dad'.
Nobody cries that has not been pinched.
Nobody grumbles at being rich, all at being poor.
Nobody grumbles while carrying a load, but when he has laid it down.
Nobody is born wise.
Nobody knows where he goes, but only whence he comes.
Nobody throws a lance if he has no target.
Nobody wants to meet an ill-omened bird.
Nobody cares about other people's poverty.
Nobody goes to Tula with one's own samovar.
The liar's house burned, but nobody believed it.
With money you would not know yourself, without money nobody would know you.
He who helps everybody, helps nobody.
What belongs to everybody belongs to nobody.
The road of "about," leads only to the house of "never." Near the spring nobody dies of thirst.
A nobody to-day, a prince to-morrow.
Either Caesar, or nobody.
Everyone talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Nobody cares about you and nobody cares about me, so why not join together?
Every man has a secret corner of his mind that nobody will ever know.
Who talks too much, nobody listens to.
Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son.
Nobody notices when things go right.
Nobody calls another's father 'dad'.
Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat.
Nobody knows where he goes, but only whence he comes.
Do well the little things now; so shall great things come to thee by and by asking to be done.
Once I had the strength but no wisdom; now I have the wisdom but no strength.
Life is like the flame of a lamp; it needs a little oil now and then.
If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity.
Before we went to churches and bars - now we go to clubs and cinemas.
Care now, be cared for later.
I am what you will be, I was what you now are.
Good advice once was worth a camel; now that it is free of charge, no one takes it.
Don't think back on someone whose name you forgot, he is probably someone else by now.
The broth is cooking, and now we have to act as one.
We let him in, and now he shows us the door.
After eating nine hundred rats, the cat is now going on a pilgrimage.
What matters is the menu on the table now.
The head could not have got to where it is now if it did not give.
If men were now to turn their hostility towards the cat, it would not be long before the domestic cat becomes a wild animal.
"Now the marriage begins," says the woman who has been beaten with thorns.
The best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago; the next best time is now.
There was a time they loved an accordionist, and now the time has come where they love a tractor driver.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
As you see yourself, I once saw myself; as you see me now, you will be seen.
What is now top of the mast, will be firewood soon.
Life is like a lamp flame; it needs a little oil now and then.
If you're ridin' ahead of the herd, take a look back every now and then to make sure it's still there.
Now is the watchword of the wise.
Don't leh de devil get into me now.
Economize now or suffer want later.
You stored your milk in a straining metal... And now you are complaining about bad luck?
If it's not here and now, who cares about what and when?
If you want to sit under a shade in your old age plant a tree now.
What makes a fool excited now a wise person had heard before and isn't excited.
He burned his own blister; now let him sit on it.
You made your bed, now lie in it.
Better keep now than seek anon.
As you see yourself, I once saw myself; as you see me now, you will be seen.
A slap in the face now is better than promised candy later.
Love is like the moon: now full, now dark.
Now the fairytale is over.
Before I wein, and now I wat.
One Mass now is worth a hundred after you're gone.
The mouth who ate the seeds asks, ‘now what shall I plant?'.
We use to live and spill tears, now we live and build happiness.
You've made bed, and now you'll have to lie in it.
Now that I have an ewe and a lamb, every one says to me: Good morrow, Peter.
The chickens have come home to roost. You're suffering the consequences now.
It does no harm now and then to burn a candle for the devil.
Now a layman, to-morrow a clerk.
Now it rains, and again the sun shines forth brightly in the heavens.
But now I was a rich man, three things have left me bare; dice, wine, and women, these three have made me poor.
Now my resources are reduced to a narrow compass.
Now I have got a ewe and a lamb, Every one cries, "Welcome, Peter."
Is now the right time to bring hay, when the cow is already dead?
A good word now is worth ten on a headstone.
The mother is there, so is the child. Now all we need is the rain.
The best time to plan a tree is 20 years ago. The second best time is now.
Air castles are good; now put foundations under them.
The worse luck now, the better another time.
Where is by now the snow of last year.
Now's now, and yule's in winter.
When I was young, the parents were in change, but now the children are in charge.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
The goat slaughtered for a man who is sick now.
There aren't enough swear-words in the English language, so now I'll have to call you perkeleen vittupää just to express my disgust and frustration with this crap.
If you want to live in peace, neither borrow nor lend.
Neither fish nor meat.
Never rely on the glory of the morning nor the smiles of your mother-in-law.
A woman without is she who has neither pipe nor child.
Neither break a law nor make one.
Neither handsome enough to kill nor ugly enough to frighten away.
Neither trust or contend, nor lay wagers or lend, and you'll have peace to your end.
A lie has no author, nor a liar a conscience.
Cowards' weapons neither cut nor pierce.
A gem is not polished without rubbing, nor a man perfected without trials.
There's no evil that lasts a hundred years, nor a body that can endure it.
The lance never blunted the pen, nor the pen the lance.
If you have to drag a dog to the hunt, neither he nor his hunting is any good.
Neither money nor the devil can remain in peace.
The hand of the child cannot reach the shelf, nor the hand of the adult get through the neck of the gourd.
What is done under the four moons need never be recalled nor regretted.
The human heart is neither of stone nor wood.
The diamond cannot be polished without friction, nor the man perfected without trials.
A cheap thing doesn't lack defect, nor an expensive thing quality.
You can't flee your lot nor share it with another.
He who starts his work early enough is neither hit by the severe sun heat nor the burning sand.
Give neither advice nor salt, until you are asked for it.
Play not with a man till you hurt him, nor jest till you shame him.
Be neither intimate nor distant with the clergy.
It is a poor village that has neither smoke nor fire.
There's neither success nor efficiency without authority and laws.
Wind from the east is good for neither man nor beast.
Neither promise wax to the saint, nor cakes to the child.
Seven sets of ewers, but no dinner nor lunch.
A dog in the manger, that neither eats nor lets others eat.
From Spain can come neither good winds nor good marriages.
When the wind is in the east, 'tis neither good for man nor beast.
Below the navel there is neither religion nor truth.
There is no use in saying, I will not go such a way, nor drink of such a water.
He that at twenty is not, at thirty knows not, and at forty has not, will never be, nor ever know, nor ever have.
Speak well of your friend; of your enemy neither well nor ill.
A great man will not trample on a worm, nor sneak to an emperor.
Choose neither a woman nor linen by candlelight.
Trust not the praise of a friend nor the contempt of an enemy.
The world at large doesn't lead to hell nor does the monastery lead to heaven.
Without money you can neither hug nor kiss.
A spoon does not know the taste of soup, nor a learned fool the taste of wisdom.
A closed mouth catches neither flies nor food.
There isn't a saturday without sun, nor a woman without love.
Whoever sows within the vineyard, neither reaps a crop nor harvests grapes.
Bread and cheese, neither beneficial nor bad.
The hat does not make the gentleman nor the cap a lout.
The healthy can't pretend to be sick nor can the sick pretend to be healthy.
Don't make promises to the rich nor withhold from the poor.
All that glitters is not gold, nor all that sparkles silver.
Neither reprove nor flatter thy wife, where any one heareth or seeth it.
I never saw an oft-removed tree, nor yet an oft-removed family, that throve so well as one that settled be.
Neither rhyme nor harmony.
I am neither at the ford nor the bridge.
A tree often transplanted neither grows nor thrives.
Neither shall the wave, which has passed on, ever be recalled; nor can the hour, which has once fled by, return again.
You must not tell all that you know, nor judge all that you see, if you would live in peace.
He who knows nothing neither doubts nor fears anything.
If you want to live in peace, you must not tell everything that you know, nor judge everything that you see.
Not so much that it burns the saint, nor so little that it doesn't illuminate him.
In this treacherous world there is neither truth nor lie; everything is like the color of the crystal through which you gaze.
Poverty does not destroy virtue nor wealth bestow it.
To show one's fist to a blind man is neither a sin nor a virtue.
The earth is not an inheritance of our fathers, nor one for our sons.
You cannot weld cake-dough to cast iron, nor a girl to an old man.
There's no quiet child nor young grandmother.
There is neither wisdom nor courage in an empty belly.
If in february there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain.
If neither animal nor vegetable you be, then mineral you are.
It belongs neither to the sea nor to the mountain.
Looking up we are not ashamed in the presence of heaven, nor bowing down are we ashamed in the presence of earth.
Corporations have neither bodies to be punished nor souls to be damned.
Fuel is not sold in a forest, nor fish on a lake.
Like neither a donkey nor a horse.
The grindstones can neither be used as a stool nor a headrest.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be.
A friend cannot be known in prosperity nor an enemy be hidden in adversity.
Neither fish, flesh nor good red herring.
Do not dwell in a city where a horse does not neigh nor a dog bark.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
Nor pot to piss in.
Ye'll neither dee for your wit nor be drowned for a warlock.
Who is so deaf or so blind as he that willfully will neither hear nor see?
Heaven hath no rage like love to hatred turned, Nor Hell a fury like a woman scorned.
The fruit of timidity is neither gain nor loss.
Don't send an old man to buy a donkey, nor a young man to woo a wife.
The owl does not praise the light, nor the wolf the dog.
From praise, as from a shadow, a man is neither bigger nor smaller.
He can see a louse as far away as china but is not aware of an elephant on his nose.
An ungrateful son is a wart on his father's nose. If he leaves it, it's ugly. If he removes it, it hurts.
The real unlucky one will sprain his thumb when he blows his nose.
The baby has not been born yet, and yet you assert that his nose is like his grandfather's.
The baby is not yet born, and yet you say that his nose is like his grandfather's.
Landing a single punch on your enemy's nose is more satisfying than hearing well-intentioned advice from your elders.
One good punch on your enemy's nose, gives more pleasure than hearing well-meaning advice from your elders.
It is easy to see the fly on the other person's nose, while ignoring the horse on your own.
The poor fool is a man who falls on his back and breaks his nose.
He who hurts his nose, hurts his face.
To get the lid on the nose.
Let everyone pick his own nose.
Curious Varvara's nose was torn off.
The blow is taken on the nose but it's the eyes that cry.
No matter if the child's born with a flat nose, as long as it breathes.
A pig used to dirt turns its nose up at rice.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
A dog's nose and a maid's knee are always cold.
Your nose is a part of you even if it was cut.
I cured my self but I amputated my nose in the process.
An ill-tempered dog has a scarred nose.
Keep your nose to the grindstone.
He who wipes the child's nose, means to kiss the mother's cheek.
An inch is a great deal on a nose.
It's often a man's mouth broke his nose.
The nose didn't smell the rotting head.
When you put your nose into the water your cheeks get wet as well.
The law has a nose of wax.
He who looks only at heaven may easily break his nose on earth.
Don't notice the tiny flea in the other person's hair and overlook the lumbering yak on your own nose.
Don't borrow another's nose to breathe with.
If you can't use your eyes, follow your nose.
He fell with his nose in the butter.
Looking down at one's nose.
Who blows his nose too hard makes it bleed.
A big nose never spoiled a handsome face.
They don't hit you in the nose for asking.
A mouse that wants to die goes to sniff the cat's nose.
Wealth is like hair in the nose: it hurts to be separated whether from a little or from a lot.
If the camel once gets his nose in a tent, his body will soon follow.
The person who can see a house in china is unaware of an elephant on his nose.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
Don't stick your nose where you en wanted.
Don't cut off ya nose to spite ya face.
Don't meddle in others' affairs unless you want your own nose scraped a little.
Better a snotty child than his nose wiped off.
If the camel once get his nose in the tent, his body will follow.
He must have clean fingers who would blow another's nose.
He who eats cherries with gentlemen risks getting the pips in his nose.
Half a nose is quickly blown.
He sticks his nose in everything.
He who is born to misfortunate stumbles as he goes, and though he fall on his back will fracture his nose.
Justice has a waxen nose.
It's often a person's mouth broke their nose.
A Haughty person will not even reach down to take his own nose if it had fallen to the ground.
It is more becoming to have a large nose than two small ones.
Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter.
He crushes pepper under the nose of somebody.
He would fall on his back and break his nose.
I would as soon see your nose be cheese, and the cat get the first bite of it.
I shall hold his Nose to the Grindstone.
He snites his nose in his neighbour's dish to get the brose himsel.
Grass does not grow on the nose of a thief.
What affects the nose must also affect the eyes that must weep for it.
The foot has no nose.
When water reaches up to the nose, the calf is a swimmer.
Making a long nose.
A person is unlucky who falls on his back and breaks his nose.
The one with a running nose always wants to blow someone else's.
He falls on his back and breaks his nose.
It is better to leave the child's nose dirty than wring it off.
Let him who feels he has a dirty nose wipe it.
Nosy Barbara's nose was torn off at the market.
The nose of him whose guide is a crow will never get out of the shit.
Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter.
The porpoise always holds his nose up to the windward.
Play will get its place, said the old hag from Tuulos when a pig took her nose.
What will kill a dog first blocks its nose.
Wealth is like hair in the nose: it hurts to be separated whether from a little or from a lot.
more robust than the nose of a lion.
The solution is under our nose, yet we're searching far and wide for it.
An ungrateful son is a wart on his father's nose.
He that has a muckle nose thinks ilk ane speaks o't.
It keeps his nose at the grindstane.
Nose like the gate's pillar in Bethlehem.
Let's take the blood sedimentation from the nose. - Fighting.
The devil leads him by the nose who the dice too often throws.
Say nothing about another that you wouldn't want to hear about yourself.
Even honor is not an honor, if there is nothing to eat.
It is beautiful to do nothing and then rest afterwards.
Nothing in excess.
Those who give have all things; those who withhold have nothing.
If the hand gives, but the heart does not, nothing happens.
No one can do nothing and no one can do everything.
There is nothing new under the sun- and that's why there remains such a mess.
If charity cost nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists.
War ends nothing.
If you've nothing to do, dig a spinster's grave.
He who has nothing to die for has nothing to live for.
When hunger gets inside you, nothing else can.
Old men and poodles are good for nothing.
The only thing we learn from new elections is we learned nothing from the old.
A diplomat must always think twice before he says nothing.
It is nothing for one to know something unless another knows you know it.
it is nothing - they are only thrashing my husband.
He who has nothing is afraid of nothing.
He is rich enough that wants nothing.
A beggar talked to a picture, but picture answered nothing.
Nothing is comprehensible except by virtue of its edges.
To promise and give nothing is comfort for a fool.
Corsairs against corsairs, there is nothing to win but empty barrels.
One may have good eyes and yet see nothing.
Beware of him who has nothing to lose.
Beware of the person with nothing to lose.
To know everything is to know nothing.
What shall I say when it is better to say nothing?
The essence of the spirit is space; there is nothing it holds to in the end.
There is no book that contains absolutely nothing bad, and there is no book that contains absolutely nothing good.
I can do nothing about governments and winter.
The noisiest drum has nothing but air inside.
He started with nothing and still he has just his begging bag.
Corsair against corsair nothing is got but empty casks.
He who owes nothing has bought nothing on layaway.
I will charge thee nothing but the promise that thee will help the next man thee finds in trouble.
There's no life so tiring as one of doing nothing.
There is nothing as eloquent as a rattlesnake's tail.
There's nothing worse for an intelligent person than to put a fool beside him.
There is nothing like leather.
There is nothing lost by civility.
God gives nothing to those who keep their arms crossed.
One should do nothing with a false heart.
Nothing is so difficult that diligence cannot master it.
Nothing is true, all is permisable.
Half bread is better than nothing.
When the eyes see nothing, the heart feels nothing.
I grew up among wise men and found that there is nothing better for man than silence.
A termite can do nothing to a stone save lick it.
The pot-lid is always badly off: the pot gets all the sweet, the lid nothing but steam.
Sitting quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself.
When a thief finds nothing to steal he will steal a dagger made of sand.
There is nothing so good for the inside of a man as the outside of a horse.
Nothing in this world is certain but death and next winter's snows.
Nothing is certain but death and taxes.
Nothing is certain but the unforeseen.
If you see something and say nothing, you will have nothing to suffer for.
Where there are many, nothing goes wrong.
Nothing so visible than what you want to hide.
If the strong man has nothing else, he can at least command others.
Even the largest army is nothing without a good general.
When you have given nothing, ask for nothing.
Fences mean nothing to those who can fly.
If you eat a live toad first thing in the morning, nothing worse will happen all day long.
He that nothing questions, nothing learns.
Nothing enters into a close hand.
Better to say nothing, than to say something not to the purpose.
A degenerate nobleman is like a turnip. There is nothing good of him but that which is underground.
There comes nothing out of the sack but what was there.
Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.
Nothing succeeds like success.
The scraping hen will get something; the crouching hen nothing.
He who takes no chances wins nothing.
When every man gets his own the devil gets nothing.
Who accepts nothing has nothing to return.
What harm is there in a good word? It costs nothing.
He who has lost his freedom has nothing else to lose.
Nothing is so new as what has long been forgotten.
Compliments cost nothing, yet many pay dear for them.
Neck or nothing.
One does evil enough who does nothing good.
There's nothing new under the sun.
Better something than nothing at all.
Nothing bolder than the miller's shirt, that every morning collars a thief.
Nothing looks more like a man of sense than a fool who holds his tongue.
Nothing should be done in a hurry except catching fleas.
When wealth is lost, nothing is lost; when health is lost, something is lost; when character is lost, all is lost!
Suit the behavior to the occasion.
There is no occasion for priests to marry, while peasants have wives.
He is not a wise man who cannot play the fool on occasion.
The first occasion offered quickly take, lest thou repine at what thou didst forsake.
You will not rise to the occasion, you will default to the level of your training.
Putting importance to an irrelevant and unnecessary occasion.
An occasion lost cannot be redeemed.
One occasion doesn't make the rule.
He who caresses thee more than the occasion justifies, has either deceived thee or intends it.
Even in the monastery there is occasion for song and merriment.
Your appearance is not appropriate for the occasion.
When the olive tree blooms during April, olives are harvested with barrels, when it blossoms in June, they are harvested in handfuls.
Don't call me a little olive until you've picked me.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
Call me not olive before you see me gathered.
Olive flowers in june, olives in the hand.
If the olive trees blossom in April, you'll have enough to collect them with barrels; if they bud in May, you'll have enough to fill a small measure; but if as late as June, you'll only be collecting handfuls.
In the olive grove, a wise man at the feet and a wild man at the head.
Call me not olive before you see me gathered.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
Asses carry the oats and horses eat them.
It is not the horse that draws the cart, but the oats.
It is safe to lend barley to him who has oats.
Give an ass oats and he runs after thistles.
A horse that will not carry a saddle must have no oats.
It's a very proud horse that will not carry his oats.
You may go to Kukutyin to sharpen oats.
Drive the horse with oats, not with curses and oaths.
Every flail on the oats.
To sow one's wild oats. (16th century)
A cough will stick longer by a horse than a peck of oats.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
The greatest oaks have been little acorns.
A reed before the wind lives on, while mighty oaks do fall.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Mighty oaks from little acorns grow.
Out of small acorns grow mighty oaks.
They only fall asleep after having mutually taken an oath and then they betray each other.
An oath broken by one does not thereafter bind the other.
One who is false to her first oath will be false to her second.
To eat from the same pot with another man, is to take an oath of perpetual friendship with him.
To a person who has real shame, words are oath.
Take an oath only for the hand youslept on.
Money swore an oath that nobody that did not love it should ever have it.
Take an oath only for the hand you slept on.
Another's mouth cannot take the oath for you.
The repeated stroke will fell the oak.
Never fell oak at the very first stroke.
A wedge from itself splits the oak tree.
A small hatchet fells a great oak.
Look for the hog at the oak.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
An oak is not felled at one blow.
Evil penetrates like a needle and then becomes like an oak tree.
Evil enters like a needle and spreads like an oak tree.
The words of God are not like the oak leaf which dies and falls to the earth, but like the pine tree which stays green forever.
It is not easy to straighten in the oak the crook that grew in the sapling.
A single stroke don't fell the oak.
The wind fells the oak, but cannot cope with the reed.
A little man fells a great oak.
An oak is not felled at one stroke.
As numerous as the leaves of the oak, or the waves which wash the island.
Mollah is a human, if an oak will produce an almond.
An oak is not felled with one stroke.
Even a giant oak was once an acorn.
When you come back from a long journey, offer your family something though it be only a stone.
If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely.
It is better to be kind to our neighbors than to cross the world to offer incense to our ancestors.
Offer the lazy man an egg, and he'll want you to peel it for him.
It is never too late to offer anything that is good.
An offer of friendship to a friend's foe is unbecoming an honorable man.
Offer a clown your finger, and he'll take your fist.
Don't offer me advice; give me money.
When a good offer comes for your daughter, don't wait till her father returns from market.
Never offer to teach a fish to swim.
If you have nothing else to offer me, offer me your smile.
He'd offer you an egg if you promised not to break the shell.
Never refuse a good offer.
Seize the offer.
If fortune calls, offer him a seat.
To offer friendship to one who is looking for love, is like giving bread to someone dying of thirst.
When they offer you a ring, hold out your finger.
Offer not the right hand of friendship to every one.
A fair offer is nae feud.
An onion shared with a friend tastes like roast lamb.
Give even an onion graciously.
Only bread and an onion? your life's still an open one.
Give graciously - even an onion.
The garlic said to the onion: 'you stink.'
Better to have bread and an onion with peace than stuffed fowl with strife.
A cat has nine lives, as the onion seven skins.
If thou hast not a capon, feed on an onion.
He fasted for a whole year and then broke his fast with an onion.
Take with you an onion to the funeral.
Life is an onion and one cries while peeling it.
Life is an onion which one peels crying.
Who eats it won't know the bitterness of the onion, but who chops it does.
An onion will not produce a rose.
Where God bestows an office, he provides brains to fill it.
He that buys the office of magistrate must of necessity sell justice.
Office without pay makes thieves.
The office teaches the man.
To whom God gives an office, adds also senses to it.
No office so humble but it is better than nothing.
The balance in doing its office knows neither gold nor lead.
Office tests the man.
Men in office must work hard.
Favour oft avails more than justice or reason.
A rainy morn oft brings a pleasant day.
A pitcher that goes oft to the well is broken at last.
Hasty speed don't oft succeed.
Less good than they say for the sons of men is the drinking oft of ale: for the more they drink, the less can they think and keep a watch o'er their wits.
He that has no wife, beats her oft.
Speech is oft repented, silence seldom.
Love's quarrels oft in pleasing concord end.
Plants oft removed never thrive.
Kings and Bears oft worries their Keepers.
Who has deceived thee so oft as thyself?
Glowing coals sparkle oft.
Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest.
We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through. Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love... and then we return home.
Everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength.
The best cure for drunkenness is to observe a drunken person when you are sober.
Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest.
Observe with the eyes; listen with the ears; shut the mouth.
Observe your enemies, for they first find your faults.
Rise early, and you will observe; labor and you will have.
If you want to know if someone has money, observe his beard and his boots.
It is but a small merit to observe silence, but it is a grave fault to speak of matters on which we should be silent.
A cautious man will observe the indications of character which nature reveals in others.
A man's faults all conform to his type of mind. Observe his faults and you may know his virtues.
A woman's honor consists in the good opinion the world has of her.
The opinion of the intelligent is better than the certainty of the ignorant.
Advice sharpens a rusty opinion.
Opinion comes before the bravery of the braves.
Be sure to have a controversial opinion, and men will talk about you.
Pity him who makes an opinion a certainty.
It is not for the blind to give an opinion on colors.
He that complies against his will is of his own opinion still.
Every person is a fool in some person's opinion.
The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong.
Maternity is a matter of fact, paternity is a matter of opinion.
He who lives according to nature will never be poor, and he who lives according to opinion will never be rich.
A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for.
If you had an opinion you better be determined.
A man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still.
A man's own opinion is never wrong.
The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong.
He does not hide his opinion under a bushel.
A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for.
A prejudice is a vagrant opinion without visible means of support. (Ambrose Bierce)
Wind puffs up empty bladders; opinion, fools.
A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for.
Though near shore, you're still in the ocean.
When I am dead the world can be an ocean or a dried up ditch.
Nobody knows the mysteries which lie at the bottom of the ocean..
The water in which one drowns is always an ocean.
Man is like a bubble of water on the ocean.
When husband and wife live in harmony, they can dry up the ocean without a bucket.
A man with little learning is like the frog who thinks its pond is an ocean.
The frog in his pond sneers at the ocean.
When an ant says 'ocean', he's talking about a puddle.
The whole ocean is made up of single drops.
Looking for a pin in the ocean.
Search for a needle in the ocean.
Hi is as albatross that observes the ocean.
One half our fatherlands is the ocean.
With a frog in the well you don't talk about the ocean.
The water from the river becomes salty when it reaches the ocean.
Water in a coconut shell is like an ocean to an ant.
The goodness of the father reaches higher than a mountain; that of the mother goes deeper than the ocean.
Many drops of water make an ocean.
All water flows into the ocean or into the purse of the rich.
Little drops of water, little grains of sand, make the mighty ocean and the pleasant land.
Better April showers than the breadth of the ocean in gold.
He thought the ocean his own under his spells.
The ocean gives and sustain life to the worthy.
One dog's piss will not pollute the ocean.
The urine of one dog will not pollute the ocean.
The world is an ocean of tears.
The cat would eat fish, too, but it wouldn't jump into the ocean.
The son of an old man is an orphan, and his wife is a widow.
Success has many fathers, while failure is an orphan.
She is as undecided as an orphan: if she does not wash her hands, she will be told that she is a dirty child; if she washes her hands she will be told that she is wasting water.
Victory has 100 fathers and defeat is an orphan.
Victory has hundred fathers and defeat is an orphan.
It is the cloth of an orphan that is often given to the guest.
More tearful than an orphan.
There is no man that cannot become an orphan.
Without father – half orphan, without mother – complete orphan.
Victory has hundred fathers and defeat is an orphan.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth.
When difficulties are overcome they begin blessing.
By bravely enduring it, an evil which cannot be avoided is overcome.
A mother is like a kernel, crushed by problems but strong enough to overcome them.
He that endures is not overcome.
Old age and treachery will overcome youth and skill.
Though a lie be well dressed, it is ever overcome.
He that fights with silver arms is sure to overcome.
The best of nursing may overcome the worst disease.
Danger can never by overcome without taking risks.
A nail is driven out by another nail; habit is overcome by habit.
Fight with silver spears, and you will overcome everything.
Adversity exists to be overcome.
Danger can only be overcome by more danger.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness.
He who steals in order to give to God can only get advice from the devil.
See and believe, and in order not to make a mistake, touch.
They have taken the cow by the horns in order to milk it better.
Sometimes you have to be silent in order to be heard it's easier to criticize than to do better.
To give in order to receive is not to give, but to beg.
In order to judge another's feelings, remember your own.
Do good to people in order to enslave their hearts.
When a woman cannot have good palm-nuts to give her rich oil, she still has to maintain decency in order to remain one of those that sell good quality oil.
Monkey mus' know weh ‘im gwine put ‘im tail, before ‘im order trousiz.
Ask for too much in order to get enough.
Sometimes you need to sacrifice your beard in order to save your head.
A ship cloaks in order to attack.
In order to succeed, we attack.
You must be fully prepared to lose a great deal in order to make a great deal.
In order to find evildoers, every human being is given a name.
When there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
What is not urgent must be done quickly in order to take care of the urgent things calmly.
The cat got an order and delegated it to her tail.
You can't order a goat to eat the hyena.
What makes up an anthill is the effort and order of determined and organised termites.
Sometimes you need to die in order to live again.
Don't give a dog a bad name in order to have an excuse to burn it.
If wood-hewing were an order, there would be fewer monks.
Take gifts with a sigh because most men give in order to be paid.
His hay is in order.
There must be order.
Order is the soul of everything.
one may become the devil's brother in order to cross the bridge.
We praise in order to be praised in return.
One talks against praise in order to hear it once again.
You have to come into the world in order to enjoy the world.
The goats pasture with bells hanging from their necks in order not to stray.
If we blink the eyes in order not to see a wicked person, how shall we be able to see a good person?
You need to break the shell in order to have the almond.
Order the lazybones a task and let him give you advice.
The fool castrates himself in order that he could accuse his pregnant wife of adultery.
The miser will stubbornly live poorly in order to die rich.
Order and do it, and you will be rid of anxiety.
Qualities of a moral order are measured by deeds.
If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in the character. If there is beauty in the character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
If there is light in the soul, there will be beauty in the person. If there is beauty in the person, there will be harmony in the house. If there is harmony in the house, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
Remember the wisdom of your ancestors in order to become wise.
Do not set the mill on fire in order to burn the mice.
Where there is no order, everything is headed toward collapse.
He who has no falcon must hunt with an owl.
The owl is the wisest of all birds because the more it sees, the less it talks.
Every man thinks his own owl a falcon.
Love makes the owl seem prettier than a white falcon.
Whether you hit an owl with a stump, or a stump with an owl.
Hooting all right and sleeping all day, doesn't make an owl wise.
The owl thinks her own young fairest.
The owl thinks her children the fairest.
The owl does not praise the light, nor the wolf the dog.
The owl tells the sparrow that her head is big.
The owl is mourning, rain is coming.
What good serve candle and glasses, if the owl does not want to see.
Folly hath eagle's wings, but the eyes of an owl.
The owl has one note, the crow another.
The owl sings to the nightingale.
The owl mocked the tit.
Life is like the flame of a lamp; it needs a little oil now and then.
One person can burn water, while another can't even burn oil.
An oil lamp feels proud to give light even though it wears itself away.
Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle.
One sesame seed won't make oil.
He who is desperate will squeeze oil out of a grain of sand.
If you would have the lamp burn, you must pour oil into it.
Water by Saint John's takes oil and doesn't give bread.
The hunter does not rub himself in oil and lie by the fire to sleep.
Water in august: oil and ferment.
August rain brings oil, honey and must.
Choose old wine and new oil.
Nunziata, fix the salad, a little vinegar, lots of oil, four reckless mouthfuls, and then some drinks from the jug.
Let the salad-maker be a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a statesman for salt, and a madman for tossing.
One man can burn water, whereas another cannot even burn oil.
Life is like a lamp flame; it needs a little oil now and then.
May you have warmth in your igloo, oil in your lamp, and peace in your heart.
Add oil to a fire.
Of oil, wine, and friends, the oldest.
He pours oil on the fire.
A bottle of oil warmed over the fire has no means of producing oil by itself.
If one finger brought oil it soiled others.
If you want bread go to Agrigento, if you want pasta go to Licata, ask for money from the people in Aci, oil and sumac from the Terminesi.
Olives harvested with a heavy staff will produce poor tasting oil.
Plain oil cures every pain.
The choice oil is from the surface, the best wine is from the middle, and the best honey is from the bottom.
A good name is better than oil.
You cannot get oil out of a wall.
He who measures oil greases his hands.
Oil and truth will get uppermost at last.
It is well to buy oil as well as salt.
It's difficult to press oil out of a rock.
To pour oil into fire.
May Inana pour oil on my heart that aches.
Derive the oil of a wall.
Truth and oil always rise above.
Upon a glad heart oil is poured out of which no one knows.
You should not add oil to the fire... Nëm këll a tűzre olajat önteni.
The truth rises to the surface like oil on water.
Truth and oil, always come to the surface.
He who has a hundred and one pesos, and owes a hundred and two, let him commend himself to god.
He is rich who owes nothing.
A good citizen owes his life to his country.
As the person who has health is young, so the person who owes nothing is rich.
There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry.
He is rich who owes nothing.
He that owes the Cow goes nearest her tail.
He is rich enough who owes nothing.
No friendship is strong that owes its rise to a pot. Недолговечна дружба, возникшая за обе денным столом.
He who owes nothing fears not the sheriff's officer.
From a pound of talk, an ounce of understanding.
A pound of care will not pay an ounce of debt.
In a thousand pounds of law there is not one ounce of love.
A hundred wagon loads of thoughts will not pay a single ounce of debt.
An ounce of discretion is better than a pound of knowledge.
A pound a fret can't pay an ounce a debt.
Better an ounce of happiness than a pound of gold.
Better an ounce of luck than a pound of gold.
An ounce of mother is worth a pound of priests.
An ounce of blood is worth more than a pound of friendship.
An ounce of state to a pound of gold.
One ounce of good luck is better than a ton of brains.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of learning.
An ounce of proof is worth a ton of assertions.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
An ounce of favor goes farther than a pound of justice.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom.
An ounce of fortune is worth a pound of forecast.
An ounce of mother-wit, is worth a pound of clergie.
An illness comes by the pound and goes away by the ounce.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.
An ounce of practice is worth a pound of precept.
An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom.
An ounce of favour goes further, or is worth more, than a pound of justice.
An ounce of lying saves tons of explanations.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
An ounce of experience is worth a pound of theory.
An ounce of do is worth a pound of tell how.
An illness comes by the pound and goes away by the ounce.
A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home.
The alcohol that is insufficient for a whole town ought not to intoxicate one man.
A liar ought to have a good memory.
Do what you ought, come what may.
Every man is occasionally what he ought to be perpetually.
If thou seest ought amiss, mend it in thyself.
No one ought to be judge in his own cause.
He who feeds the hen ought to have the egg.
Old friends and old ways ought not to be disdained.
A poem ought to be well made at first, for there is many a one to spoil it afterwards.
Do what you ought, come what may.
He ought not to complain of the sea who returns to it a second time.
He that mocks a cripple, ought to be whole.
No man ought to look a gift horse in the mouth.
A person who picks something and decides to make it his own, ought to think how he would feel if he was the person who lost the property he picked.
A cake and a bad custom ought to be broken.
A good meal ought to begin with hunger.
The hen ought not to cackle in presence of the cock.
To understand a stammerer, you ought to stammer yourself.
He who takes the profit ought also to take the labour.
No man ought to be twice tried for the same offence.
That which should feed our children ought not to be given to dogs.
The bird ought not to soil its own nest.
Rebukes ought not to have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
"Who is silent is seen to agree, when he ought to and might have spoken.”.
He, who does not seize opportunity today, will be unable to seize tomorrow's opportunity.
If an opportunity is not taken when it comes, it passes away.
The greater your troubles, the greater is your opportunity to show yourself a worthy person.
The opportunity of a lifetime is seldom so labeled.
Necessity and opportunity may make a coward valiant.
Man's extremity, God's opportunity.
A thief makes opportunity.
Never kiss an opportunity with a dirty mouth.
Catch the opportunity.
Opportunity plus instinct equals profit.
Never allow family to stand in the way of opportunity.
The opportunity that God sends does not wake up those that are asleep.
The opportunity that God sends does not wake up him who is asleep.
Opportunity seldom knocks twice.
A crisis is an opportunity riding the dangerous wind.
Four things come not back: the spoken word, the spent arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
Take opportunity by the forelock.
Keep yourself from the opportunity and god will keep you from the sin.
Opportunity seldom knocks twice.
With carefulness you realize your opportunity.
Four things come not back -- the spoken word, the sped arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
You may always find an opportunity in your sleeve, if you like.
Time and opportunity are in no man's sleeve.
The opportunity makes the thief.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door.
Opportunity only knocks once.
Opportunity bears the thief.
Every opportunity passed is lost.
Opportunity creates desire.
Opportunity makes desire.
Opportunity only knocks once.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Where there is no want of will, there will be no want of opportunity.
The threatener loses the opportunity of vengeance.
Wickedness and malice only require an opportunity.
England's difficulty is Ireland's opportunity.
He who waits till an opportunity occurs may wait for ever.
Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald; if you seize her by the forelock, you may hold her, but, if suffered to escape, not Jupiter himself can catch her again.
Opportunity makes a thief.
Opportunity makes the thief. (13th century)
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
Meaning: Wait too long and the opportunity is sure to vanish.
Rice tastes good when properly cooked, and talking is good when the opportunity is ripe.
If opportunity doesn't knock build a door.
He who does not seize opportunity today, will be unable to seize tomorrow's opportunity.
The opportunity of a lifetime is seldom so labeled.
Opportunity only knocks once.
Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door.
Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door.
The thief who has no opportunity to steal thinks he is an honest man.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Opportunity only knocks once: Grab it or you'll lose it.
Opportunity makes the thief.
An opportunity is found with difficulty and easily lost.
Do not lengthen the quarrel while there is an opportunity of escaping.
Opportunity only knocks once.
Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald.
Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house than to have one single enemy inside it.
There is nothing so good for the inside of a man as the outside of a horse.
When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you.
Better a thousand enemies outside the tent than one within.
It's better to have a thousand enemies outside of the tent than one inside the tent.
Better a hundred enemies outside the house than one inside.
Better fifty enemies outside the house than one within.
When the drop (drink) is inside, the sense is outside.
Outside a sheep, inside a wolf.
A masquerade does not perform to an outside audience until he performs well at the home base.
If you marry a young woman, make sure your friends stay outside.
He who is outside his door already has the hard part of his journey behind him.
A malicious man is like a coal sack -- black on the outside and even blacker inside.
When you sleep in a house your thoughts are as high as the ceiling, when you sleep outside they are as high as the stars.
A person looks only on the outside of things; God looks into the very heart.
When the itch is inside the boot, scratching outside provides little consolation.
Outside noisy, inside empty.
A family is like a thick forest, often from outside its dense, when your inside each tree has its own position.
Not need to know french to ask to sleep outside.
He who is outside the door has already a good part of his journey behind him.
If the dog barks, go in; if the bitch barks you had better stay outside.
After three days the place of the guest is behind the door outside.
If there's thunder at capu di staghju, leave the wheat outside.
The fish who is in the weir will want out, who is outside will want inside the weir.
He who is outside the door has already a good part of his journey behind him.
Many people who have gold in the house are looking for copper outside.
Safely housed to listen to the storm outside.
When the sun is setting outside so that you cannot even recognise the hand in front of you, go indoors!
Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house.
Love yourself; get outside yourself and take action. focus on the solution; be at peace.
A person's stripes are inside; those of a tiger are outside.
Marriage is like a besieged castle; those who are on the outside wish to get in; and those who are on the inside wish to get out.
Rain does not make friends with anybody -- it falls on any person it meets outside.
The family is like the forest. If you are outside, it is dense.
Speaks outside his teeth.
An oven and mill are nurseries of news.
The sooty oven mocks the black chimney.
One knows even when one neighbour's bread is in the oven.
If you will learn news, you must go to the oven or the mill.
An oven whose door does not shut does not bake its loaves.
Don't laugh when your neighbors oven is on fire.
He must gape wide who would gape against an oven.
You may call me even a pot, just don't put me into the oven.
Call a pot, just don't put into the oven.
It is useless to gape against an oven.
A handful of love is better than an oven full of bread.
The kiln calls the oven burnt-heart.
When the sky looks like a hot oven, if no rain today, rain tomorrow.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over chitterlings is ready for marriage.
If the bread in the oven is a failure you lose a week; if the harvest is a failure you lose a year; if marriage is a failure then you lose a life.
Everyone is kneaded out of the same dough but not baked in the same oven.
He that hath a head of butter must not come near the oven.
To one who has a pie in the oven you may give a bit of your cake.
One cannot be at the oven and the mill at the same time.
An old oven is easier to heat than a new one.
It is folly to gape against an oven.
If the mother had never been in the oven, she would not have looked for her daughter there.
A handful of love is better than an oven full of bread.
All bread is not baked in one oven.
Don't praise the bread that is not out of the oven.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over.
Loaves put awry into the oven come out crooked.
If the mother had never been in the oven.
What is inside a package is known only to its owner.
Empty hands only please their owner.
Do not be like the mosquito that bites the owner of the house.
We must blame the thief first before we say that where the owner put her property improper.
If you shake a dog, you shake his owner.
The lap of its owner is security enough for a cat.
The owner of the skin is the one to tan it.
The way a house is decorated will tell much about its owner.
When a face is sullen it remains there to be seen on its owner.
If the owner of a calabash calls it a worthless calabash, others will join him to use it to pack rubbish.
When the screech-owl sings, you can try to go to work for someone else if you're working for a bad owner.
If she's a nun in the abbey, she treats Jesus as an owner, but if she's a nun in the home, she serves Jesus and kisses him.
A weapon is an enemy even to its owner.
Return property to its owner, and your sleep will be peaceful.
The cow has no owner.
A knife does not recognise its owner.
The owner of the dog does not obey his dog.
When weeds invade the land, it means the owner is absent.
The bitter heart eats its owner.
The owner of the house knows where his roof leaks.
Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere.
Learning is a treasure which accompanies its owner everywhere.
The dog never forgets its owner.
If a dog bites you, you don't attack it but you attack its owner.
A bitter heart devours its owner.
A dog will not follow its owner to follow a king.
Only the owner can free his home from mice.
The foot of the owner is the best manure for his land.
A fair face will get its praise, though the owner keep silent.
A beautiful face is admired even when its owner doesn't say anything.
Each one to his owner.
It's the owner of the cow who walks close to her tail.
By the owner, the dog is respected.
Tie the donkey where the owner wants, and let the wolf come to devour him.
The master is the master and the owner is the headmaster.
It is not the owner, trampling his own field, that spoils it.
The cow has a bad delivery though her owner is present.
A weapon is an enemy even to its owner.
All you can tell about a big belly is that the owner has had.
The owner of the skin is the one to tan it.
As long as a cock lives, it is said to have belonged to the child of the house; but when it is slaughtered for super, it is then that the real owner emerges.
The bitter heart eats its owner.
The way a house is decorated will tell much about its owner. Don't just take love -- experience it.
The man is like the owner of Europe, 'though as far as I know I haven't sold a piece.
Without seeing the mountain, do not tuck up your skirt, without seeing the water, do not take off your boots.
Better a finger off than one wagging.
Republicans will do anything for the poor except get off their backs.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
Two birds disputed about a kernel, when a third swooped down and carried it off.
Don't cut off the monkey's tail before it is dead.
The man on his feet carries off the share of the man sitting down.
If something that was going to chop off your head only knocked off your cap, you should be grateful.
We can only speak the truth when we turn off the light.
It's hard to take britches off bare hips.
To put off repentance is dangerous.
A real scoundrel turned up and they took off their hats to him.
He has fallen off the donkey, but has found a date.
If a fool borrows a book, cut off his hand; but cut off both hands, of the fool who brings it back.
A jug carries water until its handle breaks off.
A dog will not make himself look like a horse just by cutting off his tail.
The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap.
Anger is the only thing to put off until tomorrow.
Showing off other people's feathers.
Take off your hat to your yesterdays; take off your coat for your tomorrows.
Curious Varvara's nose was torn off.
When you chop off a snake's head all you are left with is a piece of rope.
The day cuts off the promise of the night.
May the witches ride off with your manhood him.
If a man looks upon your wife pluck out his eye and cook it in a goodly stew. If he eats the stew his manhood will wither and fall off in the next moon.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
Nobody will cut a head off except the one who put it on.
The pot-lid is always badly off: the pot gets all the sweet, the lid nothing but steam.
If your mouth were a knife, it would cut off your lips.
Words in conversation are like beans, one breaks them off where they are ripe.
Does the left hand chop off the right?
The absent get further off every day.
I would like to break off the flower, but the branch is too high.
Even the elephant can fan off flies with its short tail.
Even though the peel of the palm nut has no pulpy substance in it, it is stripped off all the same.
Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark.
Without investigating the water, don't take off your shoes.
He who is carried on another's back does not appreciate how far off the town is.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
Crap or get off the pot.
It is no time to stoop when the head is off.
Heresy may be easier kept out than shook off.
Men are best loved farthest off.
‘almost' does not push a man off his horse.
A huckster who cannot pass off mouse-turd for pepper, has not learned his trade.
There's no putting off a lie upon the belly.
It is dear honey that must be licked off thorns.
Let him who is well off hold his tongue.
There is no off switch on a tiger.
He couldn't drag a herring off the coals.
Never put off tomorrow what you can do today.
No matter who comes off well, the peacemaker is sure to come off ill.
If you lend your coat, don't cut off the buttons.
Milk the cow, but do not pull off the udder.
Many kiss the hand they would gladly see cut off.
From someone else's cart you have to get off halfway.
A cracked pot never fell off the hook.
Entreat the churl and the bargain is broken off.
Let every one keep off the flies with his own tail.
Let him who is well off stay where he is.
Put off for one day and ten days will pass by.
A person always breaking off from work never finishes anything.
He who protects himself from cold also wards off heat.
He who puts off something will lose it.
Don't put off today's work till tomorrow.
Who reminds of the past and recall what has been will have his ear cut off.
Prepare the fallow field well enough and you'll be free to go off and gather the hemp ties.
Pissed off like a little squirrel with a frozen pine cone.
Milk the cow, but don't pull off the udder.
It is ill takin' the breeks off a highlandman.
He buys honey dear who has to lick it off thorns.
When you are well off keep as you are.
After the head is off, one does not cry over the hair.
Invite him as not to antagonize him, shove him off as not to let him eat.
Clothes put on while running come off while running.
Don't do today what you can put off until tomorrow.
When the healthy dog fights with a mad dog, it is the ears of the healthy one that are bitten off.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
When a poor man gets a little money, his thoughts go off in ten different directions.
If a man told you that a dog had run off with your ear, would you go after the dog or search first for your ear?
A disease that fails to finish us off will continue being condemned forever.
A man who has his feet hacked off cannot scurry far.
What you can do today do not leave off for tomorrow.
Don't point your finger into a graveyard or it will drop off.
Don't cut off ya nose to spite ya face.
Cutting off a mule's ears doesn't make it a horse.
Old oxen like soft grass.
Tired oxen must tread hard.
Old oxen tread hard.
The Bad tax-collector will sell one of your oxen, the good one - both.
Don't put the cart before the oxen.
The bad plowman quarrels with his oxen.
Dogs bark and oxen graze.
During April rainfalls the pig gets butchered, the oxen gets fattened and the sheep laughs.
The cow that does not eat with the oxen, either eats before or after them.
Men know not all their faults, oxen all their strength.
A man must plough with such oxen as he hath.
Beauty draws more than oxen.
The horse that you love draws more than four oxen.
Old oxen have stiff horns.
Even he gets on who is drawn by oxen.
One hair of a maiden's head pulls harder than ten yoke of oxen.
He who ploughs with young oxen, makes crooked furrows.
Nature draws stronger than seven oxen.
Whoever sows alongside the road, tires the oxen and wastes seed.
Use your time as best you can, keeping the hoe and oxen ready.
The cowherd who has fodder has bread, and if he doesn't have fodder then he ends up without oxen and without bread.
Plow with the oxen and seed with the cows at their own pace.
If you have ploughed with oxen, married a widow and never said a bad word - surely you go to heaven.
It is not the big oxen that do the best day's work.
Beauty draws more than oxen.
Water for oxen, wine for kings.
He who greases his cart-wheels helps his oxen.
Old swine have hard snouts, old oxen hard horns.
He who greases his wheels helps his oxen.
When the crane passes, urge the oxen on.
If you have ploughed with oxen.
An old friend is better than two new ones.
Those who know how to swim are the ones who sink.
Without sowing a single wheat you would not harvest thousand ones.
The big thieves hang the little ones.
Nice words are free, so choose ones that please another's ears.
Big words won't split ones mouth.
The ones that matter the most are the children.
The palm of ones hand does not eclipse the sun.
A cat will teach her young ones all the tricks, except how to jump backwards.
It is always the fat ones who lead the dance.
Ones neighbours problems, does not induce one to lose their appetite over them.
The people who talk the best are not the only ones who can tell you the most interesting things.
The poor ones give their alms in a humble way, the rich man throws them down with contempt.
What the elders see while sitting the young ones standing on their toes won't see.
The way to avoid great faults is to b aware of little ones.
Journey and you will find replacement to the ones left behind.
The men are the wool of the tribe, but the women are the ones who weave the pattern.
Keep to the little ones, and the big ones will not bite you.
He who prizes little things is worthy of great ones.
He who saves in little things, can be liberal in great ones.
Who avoids small sins, does not fall into great ones.
Who heeds not little things, will be troubled about lesser ones.
Good memories last long, bad ones last longer.
When the elderly ones in a house travel, the younger ones quickly grow in experience.
He who does not fart lets out silent ones.
Big fish devour the little ones.
He invites future injuries who rewards past ones.
The big fish eat the little ones.
One bad general is better than two good ones.
A beaten one is worth two unbeaten ones.
Don't be so clever; cleverer ones than you are in jail.
When big bells ring, little ones are not heard.
Old debts are not paid, and new ones are left to get old.
The path leads towards loved ones not thorns.
Distant hills look beautiful; near ones are ugly.
We are the ones we have been waiting for.
The bachelors crave to get married, and the married ones regret they got married.
The bachelors crave it, and the married ones regret it.
Always it is the brave ones who die.
The ones that matter most are the children. They are the true human beings.
A stolen object does not fill ones heart with joy.
The first thing one should own is a home; and it is the last thing one should sell; for a home is ones tomb this side of heaven.
Do not whirl a snake in the air when you have killed it; the ones which remain in their holes see you.
Great thieves punish little ones.
The animal rambling in the stable makes the sleeping ones rise too.
The way of this world is to praise dead saints and persecute living ones.
A rotten coconut in a heap spoils the wholesome ones.
A clever person turns great troubles into little ones and little ones into none at all.
An answer that does not resolve a quarrel makes a thousand new ones.
For the sake of one good action, a hundred evil ones should be forgotten.
Ones who are unable to live under the same sky.
Good deeds never leave home, bad ones echo a thousand miles.
One's own meat dishes are not as delicious as other's vegetarian ones.
Great souls have wills; feeble ones have only wishes.
Unfortunates learn from their own mistakes, and the lucky ones learn from other's mistakes.
The teeth that stink together are the ones to bite the meat.
The persons we eat with are the ones to kills us.
The eye cannot bear loads yet it can tell heavy objects from light ones.
Man's greatest battles are the ones he fights within himself.
It's the big birds that teach the young ones to flight.
When there is a big tree, small ones climb on its back to reach the sun.
Small matters breed important ones.
A newly committed crime awakens sleeping ones.
The fall of a dead leaf is a warning to the green ones.
Monkeys don't advise there young ones to be careful on trees they just remind them of the distance to the ground.
Absence cools moderate passions but inflames violent ones.
True friends are like diamonds, precious and rare; false ones like autumn leaves, found everywhere.
One rotten apple can spoil a lot of good ones.
Great trees keep little ones down.
Old friends are the best, but new ones are the most fun.
God looks to clean hands, not to full ones.
Good deeds banish bad ones.
The purest people are the ones with good manners.
While the great bells are ringing no one hears the little ones.
Little sorrows are loud, great ones silent.
As the old ones sing, the young ones twitter.
You may cook in small pots aw well as in large ones.
Little sticks kindle a fire, great ones put it out.
We hang little thieves, and take off our hats to great ones.
Petty thieves are hanged, you take off your hat to the big ones.
He who takes no care of little things, will not have the care of great ones.
Better one living word than a hundred dead ones.
As the old birds sings, the young ones twitter.
The greatest things are done by the help of small ones.
The drunk ones will sober up, but the mad ones will not clever up.
How did you rear so many children? By being fondest of the little ones.
The purse of loved ones is tied with a gossamer thread.
Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great ones by the purse.
Hell and the courtroom are always open.
Don't open a shop unless you like to smile.
An open door may tempt a saint.
Instead of opening your mouth, open your eyes.
The words of the elders do not lock all the doors, they leave the right door open.
Do not walk into a snake pit with your eyes open.
Open your mouth before you eat.
Before eating, open your mouth.
One door is shut, but a thousand are open.
If you would live long, open your heart.
An open box tempts an honest man.
An open countenance often conceals close thoughts.
At an open chest the righteous sins.
Don't open a shop unless you know how to smile.
When you have three daughters, you sleep with the door open.
The gates of hell are always open, even at midnight.
Keep both eyes open before you are married and afterwards close only one.
A man's heart is not a sack open to all.
Open your door to a good day and prepare yourself for a bad one.
Death is the key that will open a miser's coffers.
If you open the eyes of a blind man he wants to go back to the darkness.
When the treasure chest is open, even the just man sins.
A man with a sour face should not open a shop.
Death has the key to open the miser's chest.
Teachers open the door. You enter by yourself.
The jail is closed day and night and always full; temples are always open and still empty.
If heaven above lets fall a plum, open your mouth.
A silver hammer can open an iron gate.
Only bread and an onion? your life's still an open one.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
A close mouth and open eyes never did any one harm.
God gives, but man must open his hand.
When fortune knocks, open the door.
Open hand makes open hand.
Open your purse, and I will open my mouth.
Have an open face, but conceal your thoughts.
Hell and Chancery are always open.
Mouth shut and eyes open.
The flatterer's throat is an open sepulchre.
He plays with open cards.
Open your eyes, not your mouth.
Polite words open iron gates.
A slattern woman hold open the door to hell.
An open path never seems long.
Open your eyes and your ears when contracting, because the agreed upon circumstances mean a lot.
The open door invites the thief.
A bad bush is better than an open field.
Bury truth in a golden coffin, it will break it open.
Trouble is here, so open the gates.
Where friars abound keep your eyes open.
A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in.
Unless you call out, who will open the door?
The heart is a locket that does not open easily.
Keep your ears open.
Whim rules the child, and weather the field, each is open to chance.
Have faith and the way will open.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Open rebuke is better than secret love.
A bean-jam rice cake into the open mouth.
Where a chest lieth open, a righteous man may sin.
To open a business is very easy; to keep it open is very difficult.
It is easy to open a store -- the hard part is keeping it open.
Jails are always closed yet full, while temples are always open yet empty.
If heaven drops you a date, it must be received with an open mouth.
Any book you open will benefit your mind.
The doorway to charity is difficult to open and difficult to close.
The door to virtue is heavy and hard to open.
Your mind is like a parachute; it only works when it's open.
A rat with many offspring always sleeps with his door open.
An open mind only hurts those who fear their own mistakes.
If you stoop to see your neighbour's anus, then your own anus is wide open for others to see, even more easily and clearly.
If you want visitors then you leave your front door open.
Minds are like parachutes; they only function when they are open.
A man has to hold his mouth open a long time before a roasted partridge flies into it.
Open your ears to the ancestors and you will understand the language of spirits.
When fortune knocks, open the door.
An open gate lets stock out.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
A man without a smiling face must not open a shop.
Before marriage open your eyes wide; afterwards close them tightly.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
Good clothes open all doors.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
He who doesn't open his eyes when he buys must still open his purse to pay.
If you cannot heal the wound, do not tear it open.
Debts are like women, once you have them you can't get rid of them.
Every camel was once upon time two years old.
It's better to see once than hear a hundred times.
Once burned by milk you will blow on cold water.
Once bitten, twice shy.
Measure a thousand times and cut once.
A gypsy only tells the truth once in his life but he regrets it afterwards.
Life is like a ballet performance - danced only once.
Once a man has been bitten by a lion, he buys a dog.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
Not even an angel can fulfill two missions at once.
Once I had the strength but no wisdom; now I have the wisdom but no strength.
Better once than never.
Better once to see than many times to hear.
A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times.
The wise man will be cheated only once.
A girl only gets pregnant once.
He who hunts two hares at once, catches neither.
Once the rice is pudding, it's too late to reclaim the rice.
A spoken word is not a sparrow. Once it flies out, you can't catch it.
Measure seven times, cut once.
Even a blind pig finds an acorn every once in awhile.
Once you have been tossed by a buffalo, a black ox looks like a buffalo.
Good advice once was worth a camel; now that it is free of charge, no one takes it.
Better to be red-faced once than 100 times purple.
A word and a stone once thrown away cannot be returned.
A brave man dies but once, a coward many times.
A hero only appears once the tiger is dead.
Once the cattle have been split up, then the tiger strikes.
If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
Once deep pools, now a crossing place.
Once does not mean frequently, and twice does not mean constantly.
If you are praised by a villain, mend your ways at once.
He who dips his finger into honey does not dip it once.
A statement once let loose cannot be caught by four horses.
The person who admits ignorance shows it once; the one who tries to hide it shows it often.
He who admits to his ignorance shows it once only; he who tries to hide it shows it frequently.
If a man deceive me once, shame on him; if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
Once conquered - always a traitor.
Once dead the good and the bad are covered by the same moss.
Every old man was once a young man but not every young man will become an old man.
No matter how big a child is, he cannot deny that he was once carried on the back of a woman.
When a man cheats on you once, shame on him, when he cheats on you twice, shame on you.
Christmas comes, but once a year is enough.
It is better to ask twice than to go wrong once.
Fooled once shame on you, fooled twice shame on me.
Honesty is like an icicle; if once it melts that is the end of it.
If you can't ride two horses at once, you shouldn't be in the circus.
Better face a danger once than be always in fear.
Cowards die many times, but a brave man only dies once.
Truth comes back where she has once visited.
If a man deceive me once, shame on him; but if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
He that doth most at once doth least.
Borrowing does well only once.
Even the best hack stumbles once.
He who has once invited the devil into his house, will never be rid of him.
Man loves but once.
Neighbor once over the hedge, neighbor over it again.
If a rogue deceives me once, shame on him. If he deceives me twice, shame on me.
Wisdom is a comb given to a man once he is bald.
The fox falls into the trap only once.
The grumbling mother-in-law forgets that she once was a bride.
Once a friend, always a friend.
A word and a stone once let go cannot be recalled.
A beard once washed is half shaven.
He who lies once is never believed again.
Cracow wasn't built at once.
He is miserable once, who feels it; but twice, who fear it before it comes.
Christmas comes but once a year.
If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars? If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
If you stumble more than once over the same stump, you have no one to blame but yourself.
Once the game is over, the king and the pawn go back into the same box.
The good time comes but once.
Even in the tiniest little chapel there are some prayers said once a year.
Think twice, say once.
Once you have locked your door you are the emperor in your own domain.
Do not start if afraid, once begun do not be afraid.
Many will show you the way once your cart has overturned.
Listen a hundred times; ponder a thousand times; speak once.
If you ask for too much at once, you will come home with an empty bag.
Sometimes the rain might force a man more than once to seek shelter under the same tree.
Once a cock begins to crow, it never again becomes dumb.
An old banana leaf was once young and green.
Once grape gathering has finished, you have to hang up the basket.
Once a horse is old, ticks and flies flock to it.
Who has been burned once is afraid of fire.
Who has lied once will not be believed the second time.
Listen to what they say about others, and you will know what they say about you.
I eat what others have planted and I plant what others want to eat.
First mend yourself, and then mend others.
We judge others by their acts, but ourselves by our intentions.
If you've done good, stay silent; if good has been done to you, share to others.
Honorable is the person who is aware of his power, yet refrains from inflicting bad things onto others.
A man laughs at others and weeps for himself.
The wise understand by themselves, fools follow the reports of others.
The world is a ladder, in which some go up and others go down.
The tar of my country is better than the honey of others.
Gossipers always suspect that others are talking about them.
Others will measure you with the same rod you use to measure them.
A woman is like the moon-some nights it is silver others gold.
You don't satisfy your hunger by watching others work.
He who digs a pit for others falls into it himself.
Life is a ladder -- some will climb up it, others down.
Let every man mind his own business, and leave others to theirs.
Don't talk about others, they won't talk about you.
The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap.
Learn what you want and leave or others.
Choose a wife to please yourself, not others.
Women are like raindrops: some fall on palaces, others on ricefields.
A dog on the hay: will neither eat it himself, nor let others eat it.
If you rush things, you'll just make others laugh.
Evildoers always think the worst of others.
Some people prefer liquor, others prefer tofu, and some even like rotten salmon.
Respect for the rights of others is peace.
Most of us do not look as handsome to others as we do to ourselves.
He who lacks ideas makes those of others his own.
If you try to cleanse others - just like soap, you will waste away in the process.
When a ship is broken, the accident does not prevent others from sailing.
Depend on others and you'll go hungry.
If you only depend on others, you will soon go hungry.
What you give to others bears fruit for yourself.
Whoever does not help himself cannot help others.
If words fail no others will avail.
When others have received, you may still receive, because God is always present.
Envy shoots as others and wounds herself.
The one who has helped others climb the ladder gets kicked in the teeth.
Shark is the famous one in sea the but they many others.
Speak well of others.
He who is dependant on others must make friends with the dog.
Only he who knows his own weaknesses can endure those of others.
The flowers of others are red.
If you accommodate others, you will be accommodating yourself.
Deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own.
The first half of the night, think of your own faults; the second half, the faults of others.
Some men wonder over God's values, others over the cut of a garment.
He who doesn't listen to advise from others goes to his parents in-law smeared with faeces.
Heal yourself first before you heal others.
The palm-wine we drink, some people can drink it and remain wise; others lose all their senses.
Every guest hates the others, and the host hates them all.
In God we trust; all others pay cash.
Sweep before your own door before you sweep before others.
Envy shoots at others and wounds itself.
A candle lights others and consumes itself.
Never lay sorrow to your heart when others lay it to their heels.
Yourself first, others afterward.
Like the needle which clothes others while remaining naked.
If your house is of glass, don't throw rocks at others.
All kinds of fame belong partly to others.
Communicate more with yourself than you do with others.
Who blackens others, does not whiten himself.
Who speaks ill of others to you will speak ill of you to others.
If you dig a grave for others, you might fall into it yourself.
Clean your own yard first before asking others to clean theirs.
Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others.
True happiness consists in making others happy.
A fly, a harlot, a beggar, a rat, and gusty wind; the village-boss and the tax collector – these seven are always annoying to others.
One dirty pig pollutes others.
Others' bread has seven crusts.
He who gives bread to others' dogs is often barked at by his own.
The gardener's dog does not eat lettuce and will not let others eat it.
A fools knows his own business better than a wise man knows that of others.
Criminals are punished, that others may be amended.
He who meddles in others people's affairs will be left with two of three parts.
Lovers think others are blind.
Others' bread is too salt.
The wicked even hate vice in others.
Who judges others, condemns himself.
Who troubles others has no rest himself.
The wise understand; fools follow the reports of others.
Wise men learn by others' harm.
Married folk are like rats in a trap - fain to get others in, but fain to be out themselves.
If God closes one door, he opens a thousand others.
The hunchback sees the hump of others – never his own.
We can not choose who our relatives should be, even though we may come to like some better than others.
If the owner of a calabash calls it a worthless calabash, others will join him to use it to pack rubbish.
A madman does not lack wisdom.
It is only when someone kills a madman that people will know he has relatives.
The madman, who throws a stone into a crowded market, forgets that his own mother could be hit by his madness.
Let the salad-maker be a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a statesman for salt, and a madman for tossing.
Of doctor and poet, musician and madman, we each have a trace.
The madman often tells the truth.
Dancing was first started by a madman.
A madman drops a stone in a well, but forty wise men cannot take it out.
Make way for a madman and a bull.
Nothing bears a stronger resemblance to a madman than a man when drunk.
A madman drops a stone in a well, but forty wise men cannot take it out.
It is na mair pitty to see a Woman greit, nor to see a Goose go barefoot.
Charge nae mair shot than the piece ‘ll bear.
Diet cures mair than doctors.
There is nothing mair precious nor time.
The mother of mischief is na mair nor a midgewing.
The mair mischief the better sport.
There's mair ways o' killing a dog than hanging him.
There are mair foxes than there are holes for.
Mair by luck than good guiding.
Pluck the magpie, and don't make her scream.
The magpie cannot leave her hopping.
Yakov's magpie started chattering the same thing about anyone.
Confide in a woman and a magpie if you want something to be broadcast.
The magpie wants too much, but her tail is unable to carry it.
To a woman and a magpie tell your secrets in the marketplace.
The magpie is competing with the nightingale!
If the cairn were not built, the magpie wouldn't have perched.
A magpie brought it on its tail.
The miller's hen and widower's maid, of want need never be afraid.
As the tree, so the fruit; as the mistress, so the maid.
If you can kiss the mistress, never kiss the maid.
Whilst the tall maid is stooping, the little one sweeps the house.
How can the cat help it if the maid be a fool?
Even the maid has a family.
Many a sweet maid when one knows her mind is fickle found towards men.
A maid who laughs is half taken.
Hackney mistress, Hackney maid.
As the mistress, so the maid.
Fire is always a good maid, but a bad boss.
Whilst the tall maid is stooping, the little one sweeps the house.
The night's too short to warrant marrying poor.
Look at the mother before marrying the daughter.
Marrying is easy, it's housework that's hard.
Marrying for love is risky, but god smiles on it.
Marrying is easy, but housekeeping is hard.
Marrying in the blood is never good.
Building and marrying of children are great wasters.
A neck without a head, buttocks without a hole and a girl without shame are not worth admiring or marrying.
A man changing his abode is like a woman marrying.
Mother, what is marrying? Spinning, bearing children, and crying, daughter.
Marrying off a daughter is like loading cargo on a ship.
Marrying is human. Having children is divine.
Inexperienced young men are better off not marrying: Stay away from women! you'll be better off.
How can the foal amble if the horse and mare trot?
The tired mare goes willingly to grass.
A mare who has had a foal will never again drink pure water.
If the mare jumps, the filly will jump higher.
Nothing so bold as a blind mare.
A shoemaker's wife and a smith's mare are always the worst shod.
He that speaks ill of the mare would buy her.
While the grass is growing the mare dies.
The kick of a mare never hurt a colt.
None more bare than the shoemaker's wife and the smith's mare.
My old mare would have a new crupper.
Ride on the back of a mare, but on the shoulders of horses.
The horse chained to the feeding trough and the mare in the thicket.
Money makes the mare go.
A kick from a mare never hurt a horse.
The wolf spared the mare, left a tail and mane.
The grey mare is the better horse.
The old gray mare just ain't what she used to be.
Who goes more bare than the shoemaker's wife and the smith's mare.
I have tane the sheaf frae the mare.
Get your ox from a young cow and your horse from an old mare.
Money makes the mare to go.
One mad man makes many madmen: many madmen make madness.
In the world there is more madness than sanity.
The madman, who throws a stone into a crowded market, forgets that his own mother could be hit by his madness.
Anger is a short madness.
To marry once is a duty, twice a folly, and three times - madness.
Almost everyone is mad but some people can control there madness.
There are not so many who must feign madness to survive.
Anger is a short madness.
Wrath begins in madness and ends in repentance.
The First glass is for health, the second - for joy, the third - for fun, the fourth - for madness.
It is madness for a sheep to talk of peace with a wolf.
The madness of one makes many mad.
A man of gladness seldom falls into madness.
Music induces more madness in many than wine.
Easier hides a wise man his wisdom than a fool his madness.
Though this be madness, yet there is method in't. (William Shakespeare)
When it thunders in March, it brings sorrow.
Eat leeks in march, garlic in may, all the rest of the year the doctors may play.
Rainy march, beehives full of worms, and rams with colds.
March sun ages women.
March cold reaches even bull's horns.
When in March sun and water are taking turns with water and sun, the mules end up doing the carrying.
A peck of March dust is worth a king's ransom.
For every fog in march there's a frost in may.
On the first of march, the crows begin to search.
May problems with neighbors last only as long as snow in March.
God save us from the end of March and the beginning of April.
If March is late in coming, June will suffer.
Swarms in March make good honey.
Sardines in January and vopa in March.
The new moon of March rules for six months.
The nightime March snow disappears by day.
If February isn't cold and rainy, the March landscape will be green.
If you prune in March you're either a jackass or crazy.
So many mists in March, so many frosts in May.
March makes one look through the door, and makes one burn hoes and shovels.
It worked on paper, but [we've] forgotten about ravines (and we'll have to march [them]).
So many mists in March, so many frosts in May.
He who eats another mans food will have his own food eaten by others.
A mans greatest shortcoming is that he neglects his own field and weeds that of others.
A mans worst enemies are often those of his own house.
A mirk mirrour is a mans mind.
Ane mans meat is another mans poyson.
Wit in a poor mans head, and mosse in a mountain, avails nothing.
A skade mans head is soon broke.
An unhappy mans Cairt is eith to tumble.
The rich mans wealth tires the poor man's jaw.
A leopard is chasing us, and you are asking me, "Is it a male or a female?"
Facts are male, words are female.
It is better to be a male for one day than a female for ten.
The male is born to be slaughtered.
A leopard is chasing us and do you ask me: ‘is it a male or female?'
Who cares if a crow is male or female?
The greatness of man's male organ don't call it an hydro cell.
The man who wanted to milk the male goat failed.
Words are female, deeds are male.
The female of the species is more deadly than the male.
Quarrelling is peculiar to the woman who has got male children.
A child's life is like a piece of paper on which every passerby leaves a mark.
Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark.
Stroke the dog and he will mark you with his dirty paws.
He who thinks badly commits a sin but hits the mark.
If this ball does not stick to the wall it will at least leave a mark.
A club drenched in blood easily finds its mark.
You can hide a mark on your skin, but not a defect.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, yet 'twill leave some mark.
Keep your foot on the mark.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, it will at least leave a mark.
Envy always shoots at a high mark.
Don't be foolish! because foolishness hits the mark and cursing doesn't.
He must shoot well who always hits the mark.
The cat always leaves her mark upon her friend.
Wiff takir ey bradh a sinne æghne mark.
Classic, a book which people praise and don't read. (Mark Twain)
A blind man may sometimes hit the mark.
Pride is the mask of our sins.
Innocence itself sometimes hath need of a mask.
The heir's tears are but a mask to disguise his joy.
The face is a mask; look behind it.
A masquerade is not a spirit only because of its mask.
You would frighten a lion with a mask!
The tears of an heir are laughter under a mask.
Pride is the mask we make of our faults.
The face is a mask; look behind it.
Making money on manure is better than losing money on musk.
Does sheep manure turn to caramel?
Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk.
There is no better manure than the farmer's foot.
Better make profit out of manure than losses with musk.
Manure is the farmer's gold.
The master's eye and foot are the best manure for the field.
Lime and lime without manure makes the farmer rich and the son poor.
The foot of the owner is the best manure for his land.
The master's foot is manure for the estate.
A wise man cannot save a decaying country as manure cannot save an eroding land.
The chameleon changes color to match the earth, the earth doesn't change color to match the chameleon.
There never was an old slipper but there was an old stocking to match it.
No put youself in a barrel when match box can hol you.
The teeth are not match for the nut.
Be sure that the candle is lit before you throw away the match.
A thriftless woman burns the entire candle looking for a match.
A man can't challenge his spirit in a wrestling match.
One tree can make a million matches, and one match can destroy a million trees.
Let deeds match words.
A fire will sear and the sun burn yet more, but neither can match the ardor of a man's heart.
Words don't match with actions.
One tree can make a million matches, and one match can destroy a million trees.
It's bad manners to talk about ropes in the house of a man whose father was hanged.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
Evil words corrupt good manners.
A devil with fine manners can still carry you only to hell.
Manners maketh the man.
Poverty is an enemy to good manners.
Meat is much, but manners is better.
No rearing, no manners.
Different times different manners.
The rough manners of the vulgar are contagious.
Manners maketh man.
Nurture and good manners makes man.
Manners make often fortunes.
The purest people are the ones with good manners.
Good manners is the greatest friend.
Good manners and plenty of money will make my son a gentlemen.
Honours change manners.
Examples evil communications corrupt good manners.
Lordships changes manners.
Good manners and not beauty leads to love.
Honours change manners.
Honours change manners.
Success alters our manners.
Learning, jewels, virtues, good habits, polite manners, sweet speech, artistry accept them from whatever source offers.
Other times, other manners.
Beauty and money – they will go; learning and good manners – they never decay.
When you're in a strange city, adopt its manners.
Honours change manners.
One need not inherit wealth if he inherits good manners.
Winter has winter's manners.
All women are good Lutherans - they would rather preach than hear mass.
A little leaven leavens a great mass.
Meat and mass never hindered man.
All women are good Lutherans, they would rather preach than hear mass.
Alms do not empty the purse, and a mass does not exhaust the day's duty.
The bell does not go to mass, and yet calls every one to it.
Give monks a wide berth, and as for priests just attend Mass.
Bypass monks with a big stride; have nothing to do with priests, except at Mass.
One Mass now is worth a hundred after you're gone.
A short mass and a long dinner.
The nearer the minster the later to mass.
Mass is not repeated for the deaf.
When the corsair promises masses and candles, it goes ill with the galley.
The wolf does that in the course of the week which hinders him from going to mass on Sunday.
The bell does not go to mass, and yet calls every one to it.
Shoemakers go to mass and pray that sheep may die.
Little grain have I collected from a mass of chaff.
Meat and mass never hindered man.
There are more chains than mad dogs.
A mad bull is not to be tied up with a pack thread.
Choleric men are blind and mad.
Only mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noonday sun.
You cannot distinguish between a drunken man and a mad man until they have slept.
One mad man makes many madmen: many madmen make madness.
Strong attachment is difficult -- it makes one mad or kills.
A mad man drops a rock into water well, so that thousand wise men can not take it out.
If you choose to make friendship with a pig you must be prepared to live in the mad.
A mad dog bites anything except itself.
He that beats the drum for the mad man to dance is no better than the mad man himself.
A man is as big as the things that made him mad.
Don't get mad, get even.
The mad dog bites its master.
He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet.
When wise men play mad pranks they do it with a vengeance.
He who wants his dog killed has only to say he's mad.
A mad parish, a mad priest.
To mad words deaf ears.
When the healthy dog fights with a mad dog, it is the ears of the healthy one that are bitten off.
Dog don't get mad when you say he's a dog.
When a drunken man meets a mad man, he learns the difference between being merely drunk and being truly mad.
Everywhere there is a lot of mad even an elephant will slip.
Don't ever try to give a spear to a former mad man.
A lazy man plants on a mad bark as an excuse for not planting.
Almost everyone is mad but some people can control there madness.
A man in passion rides a mad horse.
The drunk ones will sober up, but the mad ones will not clever up.
Earth is old, but it is not mad.
Mad as a wet hen.
Mad love, I for you and you for another.
Where there are many masters the servant becomes mad.
Children when they are little make parents fools, when they are great they make them mad.
Every man is mad on some point.
Oppression makes a wise man mad.
Mad dogs get their skin torn.
No mad dog runs seven years.
A mad dog cannot live long.
A hungry clown is half mad.
Better be mad with all the world than wise alone.
For a mad dog, seven versts is not a long detour.
Mad love--I for you, and you for another.
Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad.
He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet.
The madness of one makes many mad.
All flute-players are mad; when once they begin to blow, away goes reason.
Mad drunkenness discloses every secret.
Every madman thinks all other men mad.
Mad desire, when it has the most, longs for more.
Even after healing, a man once mad would still shout "HOI” once in a while.
They called him mad and he went mad completely.
Earth is old, but it is not mad.
Whom fortune wishes to destroy, she first makes mad.
He'll gang mad on a horse wha's proud on a pownie.
He who wants to kill his dog only has to say he is mad.
Our best masters are those who make us suffer the most.
There are no better masters than poverty and wants.
No man can serve two masters.
The passions are like fire and water: good servants but bad masters.
Workmen are easier found than masters.
He who serves two masters has to lie to one.
He who serves two masters must lie to one of them.
One cannot serve two masters.
No better masters than poverty and want.
No man can serve two masters.
A horse with two masters is always skinny; the ship with two captains sinks.
If we are both masters, then who shall lead the mules?
Two are the masters of one.
He who builds by the roadside has many masters.
He who serves small masters, is himself one of them.
Masters' hints are commands.
Many pupils have gained more wealth than their masters.
Where there are many masters the servant becomes mad.
A good person has many friends, a good horse has many masters.
To the devil with so many masters, said the toad to the harrow.
The last comers are often the masters.
Some people are masters of money, and some people are slaves of it.
He who has two masters to serve must lie to one of them.
Servants differ as their masters.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Work is not a delicacy. If it were a delicacy, the masters would do it themselves.
Masters who sacrifice for servants will receive the gift of loyalty.
No man can serve two masters.
He who builds by the roadside has many masters.
Master your temper lest it masters you.
Nobody can serve two masters.
What one learns while young, one masters when old.
People are masters over people till arriving at the throne of God.
Meaning: Blaming the wrong reason. Looking for a scapegoat.
There is no phrase that doesn't have a double meaning.
Literal meaning: Save your white penny for your black day.
Literal meaning: The people's lord is their servant.
Literal meaning: The sultan's sword is long.
Literal meaning: The gauge has overflown.
A proverb never lies; it is only its meaning which deceives.
There is no phrase without a double meaning.
Silence has so much meaning.
The carrier of a secret message is not told its meaning.
To the starving man the beauty of Fujiyama has no meaning.
A whisper has more meaning than a noisy talk.
He who asks for the meaning of a proverb has called her/his mother's dowry a waste.
Literal meaning: Give me long life and throw me in the sea.
Literal meaning: The fisherman is the shark's friend.
Literal meaning: The friend in tight times.
Came back with Hunain's shoes. meaning: Came back with nothing.
Literal meaning: Cooking fat on honey.
Literal meaning: Give the dough to baker even if he eats half of it.
The meaning is best known to the speaker.
Meaning: Opportunities should not be taken for granted. A problem ignored is a problem doubled.
Meaning: Having done something wrong for the first time, you are afraid/do not want to do it again.
A scribe who does not know how to grasp the meaning -- from where will he produce a translation?
We die. That may be the meaning of life. But we do language. That may be the measure of our lives.
Meaning: Nature can help and harm you. The people (the water) can raise someone (a boat) to power, but can also take that power away (sinking the boat).
Meaning: Work hard and you shall gain success.
Meaning: "Those who are late to act, arrive, or get up tend to miss opportunities already seized by those who came earlier."
When the fool is told a proverb, its meaning has to be explained to him.
Italian devotion and German fasting have no meaning.
Meaning: When a wife cooks well the husband will love her until the end of life.
Seize the day." By Horace, Odes I,11,8, to Leuconoe: carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero ("take hold of the day, believing as little as possible in the next"). The verb "carpere" has the literal meaning "to pick, pluck," particularly in reference to the picking of fruits and flowers, and was used figuratively by the Roman poets to mean "to enjoy, use, make use of.
A one-eyed person does not thank god until he meets a blind person at prayer.
Mountain does not meet mountain, but a face meets another face.
Who does well, meets goodwill.
Unaccustomed to wear them, he displays the breeches he has on to every one he meets.
When a drunken man meets a mad man, he learns the difference between being merely drunk and being truly mad.
A cat keeps its crawls inside until it meets a mouse.
One seldom meets a lonely lie.
There is more to honesty than meets the eye.
One meets his destiny often in the road he takes to avoid it.
Death meets us everywhere.
Rain does not make friends with anybody -- it falls on any person it meets outside.
It may smell like a melon, but is it going to make you sick?
Whether the knife falls on the melon or the melon on the knife, the melon suffers.
A ripe melon falls by itself.
Eggplants do not grow on melon vines.
A woman and a melon are hard to choose.
The world is like that: one gives a melon, the other gets the stomach cramps.
A melon and a woman are hard to know.
A melon forced off its vine is not sweet.
The melon seller does not announce, "Bitter melons." Distant water does not put out a nearby fire.
The art is not in making money, but in keeping it.
When you're out of luck in the coffin making business, no one dies.
He who does not intend to pay is not troubled in making his bargain.
Making money on manure is better than losing money on musk.
Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk.
Love is the art of making exceptions.
There as many ways of making a living as seeds of grass.
A person of high principles is one who can watch an entire chess game without making a comment.
One at a time is good fishing; two at a time is making a hog of yourself.
There's no making apples of plums.
You cannot tell from a man's clothes how much he is making, but you must look at his wife's.
True happiness consists in making others happy.
When the millers are making an uproar, do you tie up your sacks.
It is a good file that cuts iron without making a noise.
There's no making the ass drink when his is not thirsty.
There's no making a donkey drink against his will.
There's no making a silk purse of a sow's ear.
There will be trouble if the cobbler starts making pies.
Making money is like digging with a needle.
Don't let your tongue or your paintbrush wag your tail when they are making up an inventory.
You will never be punished for making people die of laughter.
Be humble in making demands even when making your demands.
Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.
Making a rod for your own back.
Conversation is like making love; the man is the question, the woman the answer, and the union of both will bear fruit.
Making the beginning is one third of the work.
Success is doing what you like and making a living at it.
What is marriage, mother? "Child, it is spinning, having children, making money, and weeping.
There is no making pancakes without breaking the eggs.
There are many fair words in the marriage making, but few in the tochergood paying.
There is a skill in gruel making.
Money has the capability of making people laugh; but when they laugh, the foolish ones sometimes forget to close their mouths.
You can't prevent a bird from flying over your head, but you can prevent him from making a nest in your head.
When birds aren't making a mess it's a sign that it's been a bad year.
Health comes before making a livelihood.
Making a long nose.
Explaining something to an ignorant person is harder than making a camel jump over a ditch.
There's no making a good cloak of bad cloth.
To be a merchant, the art consists more in getting paid than in making sales.
Nothing reaches the intellect before making its appearance in the senses.
Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.
Making a thousand decisions, even the wise will make a mistake.
When a cow is crying, a dog is making a party.
Accomplishment of purpose is better than making a profit.
A ridiculous accident has often been the making of many.
If a young woman says no to marriage just wait until her breasts sag.
A marriage is a procession in which the cross goes first.
Love is a garden full of flowers and marriage is a field of stinging nettles.
Marriage is not a tight knot, but a slip knot.
Men have thought about their marriage a whole year long - and it lasts but one night.
Marriage is a covered dish.
My daughter, as long as you keep quiet, much money will paid for your marriage.
In business partnerships and marriage partnerships, oh, the cheating that goes on.
Early marriage, long love.
Marriage is heaven and hell.
One marriage is never celebrated but another grows out of it.
Anything is better than a bad marriage.
There is no feast till a roast and no torment till a marriage.
You monk, do you want us to give you in marriage?
What is marriage, mother? Daughter, it is spinning, bearing children, and weeping.
If marriage were a good thing, it wouldn't need witnesses.
A second marriage is like a warmed-up meal.
"Now the marriage begins," says the woman who has been beaten with thorns.
Marriage without love-making means sad consequences and sorrow.
Age and marriage tame the beast.
Marriage has teeth and it bites hard.
Marriage has teeth, and him bite very hot.
Marriage is not just a porridge that you spit out if it's too hot.
Love blinds your eyes, marriage opens them wide.
Love has its own language, but marriage falls back on the local dialect.
Marriage and shroud, from heaven will come.
Marriage is the only war in which you sleep with the enemy.
He was entrapped by the evening, it has cost him his marriage.
He was entrapped by the evening, it has cost him his marriage.
Love comes after marriage.
Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden.
Having beauty doesn't mean understanding the perseverance of marriage.
Age and marriage tame man and beast.
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
Before marriage open your eyes wide; afterwards close them tightly.
Marriage halves our griefs, doubles our joys, and quadruples our expenses.
A marriage in later years sends a letter to the grave digger.
Marriage is the opposite to a fever attack; it begins very hot and ends very cold.
The only cure for love is marriage.
There goes more to marriage than four bare legs in a bed.
Love is blind, but marriage finds a cure.
There are many fair words in the marriage making, but few in the tochergood paying.
A woman who has not been twice married cannot know what a perfect marriage is.
Marriage is like a groundnut, you have to crack it to see what is inside.
A woman who is not successful in her own marriage has no advice to give to her younger generations.
Getting married with a woman is nothing; it's assuming the responsibility of marriage that counts.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over chitterlings is ready for marriage.
If the bread in the oven is a failure you lose a week; if the harvest is a failure you lose a year; if marriage is a failure then you lose a life.
It's a good marriage when he's twenty eight and she's eighteen.
Marriage would be beautiful if it weren't for cradle rocking.
Marriage and maids, don't suggest them because you'll be cursed.
Marriage must occur early or it will never happen.
Marriage teaches you to live alone.
In marriage cheat who can.
Marriage is the sunset of love.
To eat and drink, and sleep together, is marriage, methinks.
The first snow does not mean winter, nor the first love marriage.
Marriage is a little bit like buying melons, you need a little luck.
Like blood, like good, and like age, make the happiest marriage.
When you are talking about marriage, think about your mother.
Marriage is a sack full of ninety-nine snakes and one eel.
Marriage is a lottery.
It's surely nice to be engaged and drunk, but it's different to have hangover and marriage.
Man is a fish, woman a fisher, love is the hook and marriage is the frying pan.
Dream of a funeral and you hear of a marriage.
Too many arguments destroyed marriage negotiations.
Marriage is like a besieged castle; those who are on the outside wish to get in; and those who are on the inside wish to get out.
For a young man contemplating marriage: That you might have nicer legs than your own under your table before the new spuds are up.
It is not a feast till the roast, and there are no galling trials till marriage.
A woman who is not successful in her own marriage has.
A hawk's marriage: the hen is the better bird.
Love is often the fruit of marriage.
He who throws a stone in the market will hit his relative.
Truth came to market but could not be sold; however, we buy lies with ready cash.
There goes more than one ass to market.
There come as many calf-skins to market as ox-skins.
The company of the wicked is like living in a fish market; one becomes used to the foul odor.
The antics of a market buffoon provide laughter, but nobody prays that his child becomes the market buffoon.
The madman, who throws a stone into a crowded market, forgets that his own mother could be hit by his madness.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return.
Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market.
A market is three women and a goose.
Go early to market and as late as you can to battle.
Three women and a goose make a market.
Without driving even a goat would not go to the market.
No means, no market.
If a child is not well-behaved, she is not sent by the mother to go alone to the market to buy things for her.
No use crying at the market, sell your fur coat and drink the money.
Gentility, sent to market, will not buy a peck of meal.
He loses his market who has nothing to sell.
When a very short man causes the market to break up in a big fight, bystanders ask him to stand up so that they can see how short he really is.
A person who is being carried to the market does not realize that the way is long.
The talker will lead the dog to the meat market.
Teaching a jew to deal in the market is like teaching grandmother to eat her eggs.
A person who sells eggs doesn't start a fight in the market.
You don't have to tell the deaf that there is a stampede in the market.
The frowning face of a goat doesn't prevent it being taken to market.
Life is like shopping in a market; when you finish, you go home.
Even the dog leaves the market.
What is put in a basket before going to the market won't be the same thing returned in the basket.
All the art lies in making the best of a bad market.
If fools went not to market bad wares would not be sold.
Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest.
Three women and a goose make a market.
Honor buys no meat in the market.
A moneyless man goes fast through the market.
There come just as many calf-skins as cow-skins to market.
Don't bring all your eggs to one market.
Misers' money goes twice to market.
He is as impertinent as a fly at the market.
Every one carries his own skin to the market.
A friend in the market is better than money in the chest.
Good-ware make a quick market.
There grows nae grass at the market cross.
A housewife who complains that there is not enough foodstuff in the market should remember that if her husband adds to what is already available, there would be more for everyone.
Any wealth that takes only a market week to acquire is sure to contain in it things for which the gods will surely come to make claims.
A market can be spoilt by one woman.
Send a fool to the market and a fool he will return.
If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold.
When fools go to market, pedlars make money.
Three women and a goose make a market.
You sell more herrings on the market than sole.
Nosy Barbara's nose was torn off at the market.
They put up minds for sale on the market, everyone liked his own mind.
Everyone put up his mind for sale on the market, and liked his own mind.
Honor buys no meat in the market. Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper.
Misers' money goes twice to market.
Talk of sporting, and buy game in the market.
A moneyless man goes fast through the market.
It is better to make money in the straw market than to lose it in the money market.
Three women will make as much noise as a market.
He'd skin a louse, and send the hide and fat to market.
A woman who delivers a baby in the market square has nothing to hide.
It's too late to fatten a cow on the market day.
He who throws a stone in the market will hit his relative.
If you send no one to the market, the market will send no one to you.
The antics of a market buffoon provide laughter.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return.
He that cannot abide a bad market deserves not a good one.
A sillerless man gangs fast thraugh the market.
For fashion's sake as dogs gang to the market.
I was not born when my mother was gone to the market.
If everyone were of the same mind, there would be no market in Bilecik.
If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold.
Never mention rope in the house of a man who has been hanged.
Don't mention the cross to the devil.
When you mention a snake, have a stick ready in your hand.
Don't mention him and a decent man in the one day.
"love one another” said christ, but he didn't mention anything about preferences.
In the house of the hanged man, mention not the rope.
To think of it is as good as to mention it.
Never mention rope in the house of a man who has been hanged.
Mention not a rope in the house of one whose father was hanged.
Give a blind man eyes and he will ask for eyebrows.
A north wind has no corn, and a poor man no friend.
Beware of the anger of a patient man.
The most dangerous thing a man needs is woman.
Don't let an angry man wash dishes; don't let a hungry man guard rice.
Only the man who is not hungry says the coconut has a hard shell.
When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends.
A wise man makes his own decisions, but an ignorant man mindlessly follows the crowd.
If a rich man dies, all the world is moved; if a poor man dies, nobody knows it.
If you wish good advice, consult an old man.
A lady is a woman who makes it easy for a man to be a gentleman.
Bad weather gets better, a bad man never does.
The lazier a man is, the more he plans to do tomorrow.
The wise man who does not put his knowledge into practice is like a bee that gives no honey.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth and the mouth of the wise man is in his heart.
The slimming of an elephant and the losses of a rich man are not noticeable.
It is a wise man who can laugh at his own jokes.
A man chases a woman until she catches him.
Work is twice done by the man in a hurry.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
No man can paddle two canoes at the same time.
If the man lets a woman know what he has got in his saving box, she will marry him for his money.
An unfortunate man would be drowned in a teacup.
The best bed that a man can sleep on is peace.
It is better to carry stones with a wise man than accept the meal of a madman.
There is always a better man for every good man.
Never criticize a man until you've walked a mile in his moccasins.
The spouse of a woman is a man, the spouse of a man is his livelihood.
If a man from humble beginnings gets rich, he will carry his umbrella at midnight.
No one is as deaf as the man who will not listen.
A man throws stones not words.
The son of an old man is an orphan, and his wife is a widow.
When the man is away, the monkey eats his corn and goes into his hut.
A man can never be perfect in a hundred years; but he may become corrupt in less than a day.
Unless the thunder strikes, a man won't cross himself.
No man is an island.
A man without passion is no son of Adam.
A bad man in Zion City is a good man in Chicago.
Every man is a prince in his own bed.
Ask advice of an ignorant man and he will think you are his enemy.
While the smart man plans to get married, the foolish one ends up with a family.
A man prolonging his age sees a camel giving birth.
Beware of the man to whom you have done a good turn.
A man without a child is a king without sorrows.
One doesn't tell a man ‘go away' but one shows him something so he will go.
The stronger man will rule the house.
A man one year elder to you is one cunning year elder to you.
A man laughs at others and weeps for himself.
One who prevades the great universe is seen by none unless a man knows the unfolding of love.
A man who has eaten something becomes shy.
When a man sleeps, it is the same person when he wakes up.
A woman prefers a man without money to money without a man.
If a man would live in peace, he should be blind, deaf, and dumb.
Time and tide wait for no man.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
He is like a deaf man at a wedding procession.
A blind man sat behind a pile of stones and thought that nobody could see him.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
The fly has no pity for the thin man.
The white man never forgets Europe.
The impotent man does not eat spicy foods.
A bald-headed man will not grow hair by getting excited.
The man on his feet carries off the share of the man sitting down.
The man who can't dance says the band can't play.
The man who builds his own throne rules over a desert.
A man must put grain in the ground before he can cut the harvest.
The death of an elderly man is like a burning library.
Only take away the wife of a strong man when he is out.
Polygamy makes a husband a double-tongued man.
The man with one wife is the boss of all bachelors.
The voice of a poor man does not carry very far.
To the patient man will come all the riches of the world.
Disgraced like a man whose own pet bites him.
Buffaloes are held by ropes, man by his words.
A deaf man may not have heard the thunder but he surely will see the rain.
Once a man has been bitten by a lion, he buys a dog.
A man who develops himself is born twice.
If a man lends an ear, it's because he, too, wants to speak.
Love for something makes a man blind and deaf.
For no man could be blessed without the acceptance of his own head.
The man who has bread to eat does not appreciate the severity of a famine.
When the white man is about to leave a garden for good, he wrecks it.
A dead man does not know where his grave is.
Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum.
A wise man learns at the fool's expense.
The joy of a poor man does not last long.
No matter how fast a man is, he cannot outrun his shadow.
However swift a man, he will not outstrip his shadow.
A liar should have a good memory.
Gratitude is the memory of the heart.
Experience is the father of wisdom and memory the mother.
if you're a liar, then have a good memory.
The best memory is that which forgets nothing, but injuries. Write kindness in marble and write injuries in the dust.
A great liar has need of good memory.
Memory slips, letters remain.
A liar ought to have a good memory.
A liar must have a good memory.
Gratitude is the heart's memory.
The memory of you sings in my blood.
Acts of kindness may soon be forgotten, but the memory of an offense remains.
The palest ink lasts longer than the most retentive memory.
The best memory is not so firm as faded ink.
Fortune has a fickle heart and a short memory.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
I hate a jovial table companion with a good memory.
The best memory is that which forgets nothing, but injuries.
Your memory can let you down like it did to a finn who was carving a wooden spoon.
A liar should have a good memory.
Everyone blames his memory, but never his judgement.
When glory comes, memory departs.
Memory is everyone's friend -- it leaves you when you need it most.
The memory of happiness makes misery woeful.
The memory of a benefit vanisheth, but the remembrance of an injury sticketh fast in the heart.
Luck is a lost jewel that memory grinds.
It's a good thing for a liar to have a good memory.
A happy memory is a joy forever.
Every goodbye is the birth of a memory.
To know means to record in one's memory but to understand means to blend with the thing and to assimilate it oneself.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
The water goes, the sand remains; The person dies, the memory remains.
Poor memory is better than bad memories.
A successful writer has a good memory and hopes that others do not have it.
He that stumbles and falls not, mends his pace.
He that after sinning mends, recommends himself to god.
When the wine runs to waste in the cellar, he mends the cask.
Flesh of man – mends itself.
Like to die mends not the Kirkyard.
Mends is worth misdeeds.
He who stumbles and does not fall mends his pace.
Flesh of man – mends itself.
Better skaith sav'd than mends made.
If women were really good, God would be married.
While the smart man plans to get married, the foolish one ends up with a family.
It is better to be married to an old lady than to remain unmarried.
Keep both eyes open before you are married and afterwards close only one.
A married man has many sorrows - an unmarried man has one more.
If you want to totally avoid being deceived, get married on February 30th.
How gently glides the married life away, When she who rules still seems but to obey.
When two paupers get married it is the beginning of a generation of beggars.
If there were no cold Friday evenings and boring Saturdays, no one would get married any more.
All married women are not wives.
There is no coincidence in getting married.
If the dog leads the man, the man is blind. If the man leads the dog, the man is married.
If money where to be found up in the trees, most people would be married to monkeys.
The monk gets married to please his friend.
She who is a beauty is half married.
A young man married is a young man marred.
Children married, cares increased.
Pray once if you are going to fight, twice if you are going to sail, and thrice if you are going to get married.
You have married a beauty? So much the worse for you.
Married folk are like rats in a trap - fain to get others in, but fain to be out themselves.
The way you got married is not the way you'll get divorced.
Before you married keep you' two eye open; after you married, shut one.
When Anger and Revenge get married, their daughter is called Cruelty.
After your daughter is married, there comes a number of potential sons-in-law.
Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; married, an ass.
A buxom widow must be married, buried, or cloistered.
For better for worse they have married me.
The bachelors crave to get married, and the married ones regret they got married.
The bachelors crave it, and the married ones regret it.
No married woman will have her white hair shaved at her mother's.
Married couples who love each other tell each other a thousand things without talking.
If you are married to a chicken obey the chicken. If you are married to a dog obey the dog.
The easiest way to get a divorce is to be married.
A young man married is a young man marred.
If you always say "no', you'll never be married.
Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury.
Not all people who have yawned together must get married.
She is well married who has neither mother-in-law nor sister-in-law.
Married couples who love each other tell each other a thousand things without talking.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter a pig and you will be happy for a month; become a priest and you will be happy for the rest of your life.
A married man is a caged bird.
Better half hanged than ill married.
A woman who has not been twice married cannot know what a perfect marriage is.
Getting married with a woman is nothing; it's assuming the responsibility of marriage that counts.
Being in love with a married woman is living on borrowed time.
Who gets married will be happy for a day, who butchers a pig will be happy for a year.
Married people and mules, leave them alone.
For women the highest state is the married state.
If you have ploughed with oxen, married a widow and never said a bad word - surely you go to heaven.
It's never too late to die or get married.
Married to-day, married to-morrow.
Always in love, never married.
After the daughter is married, then come sons-in-law in plenty.
Every woman needs two men - one to be married to and the other to compare.
The nights are short for him who married late in life.
If you go to war pray once; if you go on a sea journey pray twice; but pray three times when you are going to be married.
The bacon of paradise for the married man that does not repent.
Never advise someone to go to war or to get married.
Married people need a home of their own.
Never advise anyone to go to war or to get married. Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present. He that has no children brings them up well.
The bachelor is a peacock, the fiancT is a lion and the married man a mule.
She is well married who has neither mother-in-law nor sister-in-law.
For his pleasure he got married. On his thinking it over he got divorced.
If you go to war pray once if you go on a sea journey pray twice but pray three times if you are going to be married.
If you want happiness for an hour, take a nap. If you want happiness for a day, go fishing. If you want happiness for a month, get married. If you want happiness for a year, inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime, help someone else.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap. If you want happiness for a day -- go fishing. If you want happiness for a month -- get married. If you want happiness for a year -- inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime -- help someone else.
Maidens should be meek till they be married.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter.
Who gets married to a thin woman will know bitterness and strife, who marries a plump woman will be contented at the table and sleeping chamber.
No married woman will have her white hair shaved at her mother's.
Always say no, and you will never be married.
He who can't bother to get married will have no children.
A meal without flesh is like feeding on grass.
A smiling face is half the meal.
One bean does not make a whole meal.
Better a meal of vegetables where there is love than a fatted ox where there is hatred.
If your husband has many wives, the only sure way for him into you're the bedroom is through a delicious meal.
A good meal is worth hanging for.
It's easy to knead when meal is at hand.
The one in a hurry, will have a raw and hot meal.
In default of bread, meal cakes are good.
He who would stop every man's mouth must have a great deal of meal.
A second marriage is like a warmed-up meal.
He who waits for another's platter has a cold meal.
Woe is he whose meal is in the river.
Let us hurry and finish up the food; when visitors arrive, the meal will be over.
When you have a lot to do, start with a meal.
He! He! He! You begin with the meal before the water is boiling!
Gentility, sent to market, will not buy a peck of meal.
Mustard after the meal.
The devil's meal turns half to bran.
We all see the same sun, but we don't eat the same meal.
The appetite comes during a meal.
April and May make meal for the whole year.
After the meal, one has to be still and shut the eyes for a while in the gloom.
Silly toad: planning a meal of goose!
No mill, no meal.
Dead song-birds make a sad meal.
To extend your life by a year, take one less bite each meal.
A good breakfast cannot take the place of the evening meal.
A lazy chick that exposes itself will be a delicious meal for the eagle.
He who eats an egg foregoes a future meal of chicken soup.
Having finished the meal, the company leaves.
He must have much meal who would stop all mouths.
A fast is better than a bad meal.
It is the quiet pigs that eat the meal.
Give a servant a proper meal and the cow will give more milk and the cat will drink less.
The Malt is above the Meal.
When the sun is on azilonu, it's meal time.
He's a fool who earns a square meal.
It is easy to bake where there is plenty of meal.
One who eats the remains of a meal without first obtaining permission.
He heed have plenty of meal who would stop every man's mouth.
A good meal ought to begin with hunger.
If God sends you meal, the devil takes the sack.
All that meal comes not from your own sack.
Friends for a meal are easy to find, friends until end of life are difficult to find.
Much bran and little meal.
A guest unwanted comes at meal time.
It is good baking besides meal.
A good meal should begin with hunger.
When building a house, don't measure the timbers in the forest.
Others will measure you with the same rod you use to measure them.
God gives to us according to the measure of our hearts.
Never use a dwarf to measure the depth of the water.
Don't measure a wolf's tail until he is dead.
Measure seven times, cut once.
He who receives a gift does not measure.
If you receive a gift don't measure it.
Do not measure the timbers for your house in the forest.
You can measure the depth of the sea but what about a man's heart?
Man alone is the measure of all things.
Little by little fills up the measure.
Do not measure another man's coat on your body.
Before you buy shoes, measure your feet.
Don't measure your neighbor's honesty by your own.
It is no sin to sell dear, but a sin to give ill measure.
Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire.
Money is the measure of all things.
God has only one measure for all people.
Little by little the measure is filled.
You can't measure the whole world with your own yardstick.
Measure thrice before you cut once.
Measure thy cloth ten times, thou canst cut it but once.
Three times measure, one time cut.
Measure three times before you cut once.
Just scales and full measure injure no man.
You can't measure a snake until it's dead.
Eat at pleasure; drink by measure.
Good weight and measure, are heaven's treasure.
Life is not a cup to be drained, but a measure to be filled.
Measure twice before you cut once.
The measure of our sacrifice is the measure of our love.
God gives his anger by weight, but his pity without measure.
When the measure is full, it runs over.
It is not a sin to sell dear, but it is to make ill measure.
Measure thrice, cut once.
Man is the measure of all things.
Measure three times and cut once.
Measure twice, cut once.
Don't measure others with your hand.
Measure is treasure.
Don't judge every one by your own measure.
Measure thrice what thou buyest; and cut it but once.
If the olive trees blossom in April, you'll have enough to collect them with barrels; if they bud in May, you'll have enough to fill a small measure; but if as late as June, you'll only be collecting handfuls.
A lady has to be of the right cut and the right measure to make a pretty figure.
Measure the corn of others with your own bushel.
Eat with pleasure; drink with measure.
Eat bread at pleasure, drink wine by measure.
Do not measure others by your own yardstick.
There is no such witness as a good measure of wine.
Weight and measure save a man toil.
There is measure in all things.
Three times measure, one time cut.
Measure twice, cut once.
According to the measure you will do, that measure you will find.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
We die. That may be the meaning of life. But we do language. That may be the measure of our lives.
Measure your throat before you swallow a bone.
When building a house, don't measure the timbers in the forest.
Good weight and measure, are heaven's treasure.
Eat with pleasure, drink with measure.
Measure the corn of others with your own bushel.
Measure, is Treasure.
Ye have ta'en the measure of his feet.
Live in measure, and laugh at the mediciners.
Measure is treasure.
In the end, all foxes meet at the furrier's.
At last the foxes all meet at the furrier's.
If you go out a lot at night, you will probably meet ghosts.
When you meet a man judge him by his clothes, when you leave a man judge him by his heart.
Hearts do not meet one another like roads.
Flint and gunpowder: every time they meet there is an explosion.
The trees never meet but people do.
Only the mountains never meet.
The day you go naked, is the day you will meet your father.
Both the fast and the slow will meet each other on the ferry boat.
If you meet a red-haired woman, you'll meet a crowd.
Don't bid the devil good day till you meet him.
Be kind to those that meet you as you rise, you may pass them again as you fall.
Two Sir Positives can scarce meet without a skirmish.
Bandage up your finger and take a walk in the village to see how many medical people you will meet.
Good and quickly seldom meet.
Nowadays you must go to heaven to meet an angel.
When con men meet a legitimately honest man, they are so bewildered that they consider him a greater con man than themselves.
When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down.
A fool may meet with good fortune, but the wise only profits by it.
Even things that are far apart can meet as one.
I am in a place where three ways meet.
Men meet, only mountains do not.
It is not easy to meet Good, but it is easy to recognize it.
Don't meet troubles half-way.
Meet on the stairs and you won't meet in heaven.
You never meet your mother-in-law on the day that you are welldressed.
Once we meet and talk, we are brothers and sisters.
When you have read a book for the first time, you get to know a friend; read it for a second time and you meet an old friend.
A thousand cups of wine do not suffice when true friends meet, but half a sentence is too much when there is no meeting of minds.
Although there exist many thousands of subjects for elegant conversation, there are persons who cannot meet a cripple without talking about feet.
Never boast -- you might meet someone who knew you as a child.
No matter how big the sea may be, sometimes two ships meet.
Dangerous enemies will meet again in narrow streets.
Heaven and earth shall never meet.
Return to old watering holes for more than water; friends and dreams are there to meet you.
The more responsibilities a man assumes, the more likely he is to meet them.
The love of money and the love of learning rarely meet.
Do not meet troubles half-way.
Friends may meet, but mountains never greet.
It is meet that a man be at his own bridal.
It is as meet as a thief for the widdie.
A good millstone does not meet a good miller.
Nobody wants to meet an ill-omened bird.
Two men may meet, but never two mountains.
Great wits meet.
Remember that everyone you ever meet is sure to fear something, to love something, and to have lost something.
Mountain won't meet mountain, but man will meet man.
Many meet the gods, but few salute them.
Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet... (Rudyard Kipling)
The people meet each other but the hills do not.
People meet each other, mountains never do.
Mountains and valleys stand firm but people meet.
When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down.
Nobody wants to meet an ill-omened bird.
To meet an old friend in a distant country is like the delight of rain after a long drought.
Extremes meet.
Generosity which is dilatory is worth going to meet.
If your messenger is slow, go to meet him.
Men may meet, but mountains never greet.
Mountain does not meet mountain but man does meet man.
Every man I meet is in some way my superior; and in that I can learn of him.
When flatterers meet the devil goes to dinner.
When a merchant talks about sheep he means the hide.
No deceit, no merchant.
He is no merchant who always gains.
A pot trader whose fortunes are all invested in her clay pots isn't much of a merchant.
Merchant to-day, beggar to-morrow.
He that loses is merchant as well as he that gains.
A teem purse makes a bleat merchant.
As good merchant tines as wins.
If a man knew what would be dear, he would be but Merchant for a year.
The bankrupt merchant is half rich.
A good merchant has neither money nor goods.
A broke merchant counted his small change.
To be a merchant, the art consists more in getting paid than in making sales.
It is good gear that pleases the merchant.
The merchant that loses cannot laugh.
There is no medicine for a fool.
Use medicine as well as prayers.
Medicine is the noblest of all arts.
Medicine left in the bottle can't help.
Work is the medicine for poverty.
A library is a repository of medicine for the mind.
Regularity is the best medicine.
Even honey can taste bitter if it's used as medicine.
When the pain has passed one forgets the medicine.
People are man's medicine.
Visitors' footfalls are like medicine; they heal the sick.
Water is cheaper than medicine.
Good medicine often has a bitter taste.
There is no medicine to cure hatred.
There is no medicine against old age.
Hate has no medicine.
Those who take medicine and neglect their diet waste the skill of the physician.
The mud of one country is the medicine of another.
Repentance is the heart's medicine.
Temperance is the best medicine.
Medicine that heals is not always sweet and caring words are not always pleasant.
A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
If you want to give a sick man medicine, let him first be really ill -- so that he can see how well the medicine works.
The dying man is not saved by medicine.
Abstinence is the best medicine.
No one drinks medicine on behalf of a sick person.
Rest is the best medicine.
Only a medicine man gets rich by sleeping.
Walking in two is medicine.
The medicine that cures the tailor can kill the shoemaker.
Medicine cures the man who is fated not to die.
Sleep is better than medicine.
A dying ear does not feel the medicine.
What the heart desires is medicine to it.
Better go without medicine than call in an unskilled physician.
Though you don't believe in other gods, you believe in the god of thunder; though you don't believe in medicine generally, you believe in laxatives.
The man who is not destined to die will be cured by medicine.
Just as a medicine may not cure a serious illness, wine will certainly not dispel your grief.
Your food is supposed to be your medicine and your medicine is supposed to be your food.
There is no medicine to cure hatred.
A bad wound deserves strong medicine.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Stupidity is a disease without a medicine.
Every disease has a medicine except for death.
Advice after the mischief is like medicine after death.
Physicians rarely take medicine.
Time is anger's medicine.
Sleep is better than medicine.
Abstinence is the best medicine.
Where there is no wine, we need medicine.
There is no medicine against death.
The medicine that hurts the most is generally the best healer.
He who is sick will not refuse medicine.
Water is the oldest medicine.
Misfortunes are, in morals, what bitters are in medicine: each is at first disagreeable; but as the bitters act as corroborants to the stomach, so adversity chastens and ameliorates the disposition.
Abstinence is the best medicine.
The bitter cup we strive to remove from us holds the medicine.
Prescribe the right medicine for a symptom.
Only a medicine man gets rich by sleeping.
Patience is often better than medicine.
You cannot swallow medicine pills without letting the throat know.
Calm water does not mean there are no crocodiles.
Many births mean many burials.
Once does not mean frequently, and twice does not mean constantly.
A mother and daughter fought, and fool thought they meant it.
Clouds do not always mean rain, but smoke is a sure sign of fire.
Being a good friend of a scorpion doesn't mean that you can't be stung by a honeybee.
Higher duties mean greater responsibilities.
Fences mean nothing to those who can fly.
If words could only speak, they'd mean even less.
One minute of patience can mean ten years of peace.
I meant to cross myself and put out one of my eyes.
He who is meant to be a basket-carrier is born with the handle in his hand.
Doubts mean losing half of one's case beforehand.
If the master gets drunk it is an honorable drunkenness; if the servant does it is evidence of his mean disposition.
"Give me a push from my back" does not mean give me a hunchback.
A silk dress doesn't mean clean undergarments.
To speak French doesn't mean you are smart.
Of a compliment only a third is meant.
Open your eyes and your ears when contracting, because the agreed upon circumstances mean a lot.
He said devil, but meant you.
Maidens say no, and mean yes.
The fact that you have gone near the battle-field does not mean that you fought.
Just because you are poor does not mean you have to sleep with your mother.
To serve a mean man may not be profitable.
To serve a mean person, is to beat the earth.
If they are uttering insults and don't mean you, and yet you reply, you have condemned yourself.
I refuse to fight does not mean I am a coward.
Some roads aren't meant to be travelled alone.
To suffer doesn't mean to die.
If your brother is rich it doesn't mean you're rich.
The tiger that prowls quietly doesn't mean it's intimidated.
Living near a lake doesn't mean you eat fish whenever you need.
Having beauty doesn't mean understanding the perseverance of marriage.
Good listening does not mean sitting dumb.
Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them.
Treat them mean, keep them keen.
Is there no mean but fast or feast?
Be generous to a generous person and you'd win him, be generous to a mean person and he'd rebel on you.
If the beard meant everything, the goat would preach.
Said in sport, meant in earnest.
Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them.
Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them.
Many who kiss the child mean the nurse.
Money is flat and meant to be piled up.
A mean pot plaid never even.
Preparing cocoyams for planting does not mean that they are already planted.
That which is written, is meant to be read.
Always use spurs with a horse, whether it's mean or gentle.
To be slim does not mean having been pared.
The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything.
You reproach your daughter, but you mean your daughter-in-law.
A lock is meant only for honest men.
Many hounds mean the death of the hare.
The first snow does not mean winter, nor the first love marriage.
No offense taken when none is meant.
Poverty makes a man mean.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
Rather talk alone than with a mean companion.
Pretty girls, nice daughters, but from where do the mean women come?
A message is given to many, but those who are meant to understand, understand.
Some man bu'n dem hand when they only mean to warm dem.
The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything.
A lock is meant only for honest men.
The mean is the best.
Who would be mean to his darling, especially before the wedding?
I have to live in Finland. I could never leave this land; it would make the end of me and would mean death to my art.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
Mean fathers, wasteful sons.
Seize the day." By Horace, Odes I,11,8, to Leuconoe: carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero ("take hold of the day, believing as little as possible in the next"). The verb "carpere" has the literal meaning "to pick, pluck," particularly in reference to the picking of fruits and flowers, and was used figuratively by the Roman poets to mean "to enjoy, use, make use of.
No matter how fast the poplar grows, it will never reach heaven.
No matter how many house chores you complete, there are always more to be done.
No matter how long the night, the day is sure to come.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
No matter how fast a man is, he cannot outrun his shadow.
Only two things matter in this world: a son and a daughter.
Many dogs kill a hare, no matter how many turns it makes.
No matter if you eat a little or a lot of garlic, the smell is just as strong.
A brave man will face a situation no matter how dreadful.
No matter how sharp it is, a knife will never cut it's own handle.
When the snake is in the house, one need not discuss the matter at length.
Counsel is irksome when the matter is past remedy.
No matter how far you have gone on a wrong road, turn back.
The ones that matter the most are the children.
No matter how long a log floats on the river, it will never be a crocodile.
No matter how much the world changes, cats will never lay eggs.
No matter how many chores you finish in your house, there is always yet more to be done.
No matter how much care is taken, someone will always be misled.
No matter how full the river, it still wants to swell more.
No matter how strong you are, you always find someone stronger.
No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up.
A great affair covers up a small matter.
Charity is the matter of the heart not of the pocket.
It is a little thing to starve to death; it is a serious matter to lose one's virtue.
Ask no favors and people everywhere are affable; if you don't drink, it doesn't matter what price wine is.
No matter how high the squirrel jumps, it will eventually fall onto the ground.
No matter how big the whale is, a tiny harpoon can kill him.
No matter how tall a camel is, it will never get taller than than the hair on its back.
No matter how big a child is, he cannot deny that he was once carried on the back of a woman.
No matter how tough the current of a river may be it is the calabash that triumphal over the river.
No matter how much milk a cow has, you cannot milk butter from it.
No matter how bad a child is, he is still good for a tax deduction.
It takes nine months to have a baby, no matter how many people you put on the job.
It is an easy matter for a stingy man to get rich -- but what's the use?
Meddle not with another man's matter.
The world likes to have night-owls, that it may have matter for wonder.
You've got to do your own growing, no matter how tall your grandfather was.
It's not a matter of upper and lower class but of being up a while and down a while.
No matter who comes off well, the peacemaker is sure to come off ill.
No matter how tall your grandfather was, you have to do your own growing.
An ant-hill that is destined to become a giant ant-hill will definitely become one, no matter how many times it is destroyed by elephants.
No matter how beautiful the shoes are, they still have to go on the ground.
No matter how long the procession, it still ends up in church.
No matter how much you eat, save some seeds for sowing.
No matter how smart a person is, eventually he will make a mistake.
No matter how stressed or angry we are, we have to solve a problem with rationale.
No matter how successful a person is, he will experience some bad things too.
It will last out our time; if after us no grass grows, what does it matter to us?
No matter how much you feed a wolf, he will always return to the forest.
No matter how much snow falls, it won't remain there all the way till summer.
No matter if the child's born blind, as long as it doesn't beg.
Try this bracelet: if it fits you wear it; but if it hurts you, throw it away no matter how shiny.
In the matter of pigs, all is money, and in the matter of money, all are pigs.
No matter how hidden a force is, it will attract some kind of resistance.
A klingon does not postpone a matter of honor.
The ones that matter most are the children. They are the true human beings.
No matter how early one awakes, the sun does not rise first.
No matter how thoroughly a crow may wash, it remains ever black.
No matter how generous you are, you don't give your wife away.
No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up.
A great affair covers up a small matter.
He that repeats a matter separates very friends.
Love is love no matter whence it comes or in what form.
No matter how big, one beam cannot support a house.
No matter how the wind howls, the mountain will not bow to it.
No matter how worthless a man may be, kill him and see how much he costs you.
It does not matter if your tavern sits in a remote location so long as the smell of your wine is appealing.
No matter how big the sea may be, sometimes two ships meet.
No matter how tall the tree is, its leaves will always fall to the ground.
No matter how poor a village, there is always one rich man.
No matter how rich a man may be he cannot sleep on two beds at ago.
No matter how tight a monkey's trousers are, there is always space for his tail.
No matter how wise you are, you cannot trace footsteps in water.
No matter how hot your anger may be it cannot cook.
No matter how hungry the vulture, it will never eat grass.
No matter how long the night is, the morning is sure to come.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
No matter how much you feed a lizard it cannot become a crocodile.
It doesn't matter how slowly you walk, just as long as you don't stop.
No matter how angry a rat may be it will be eaten by a cat.
No matter how close the ear is to the eye they can't see each other.
No matter how far you are from your house, you will keep going until you get home.
No matter how far you have walked in the wrong direction certainly you have to turn back and take the right direction.
No matter how full the river, it still wants to grow.
No matter how long a stick may stay in a river, it will never change into fish.
No matter how sharp your teeth are, you can't bite water.
No matter how long a bird lives in a cage, it will always want to escape.
No matter how fast a man can run, he can never chase his shadow and catch it.
Mercy resides in God; deeds are in men.
No one has mercy by magnus.
Mercy or power.
Fire, water and government know nothing of mercy.
Every family has a goodness of mercy.
He that has no charity deserves no mercy.
Rats and conquerors must expect no mercy in misfortune.
Our wisdom is no less at Fortune's mercy than our wealth.
Fire, water, and government know nothing of mercy.
Even when a sharp sword rests on your neck, don't give up on mercy.
Mercy to the criminal may be cruelty to the people.
Tis good feasting in other men's houses.
Compare your grieves with other men's and they will seem less.
Copper begets copper, and not (the labour of) men's bones.
Covetous men's chests are rich, not they.
Great men's servants don't think little of themselves.
Great men's vices are accounted sacred.
Poor men's words have little weight.
Wine is old men's milk.
The fool knows more in his own house than the sage in other men's.
Lent, which seems so long, is short at other men's tables.
Wise men learn by other men's mistakes, fools by their own.
Broad thongs may be cut from other men's leather.
Cunning men's cloaks sometimes fall.
It is easy to cut thongs form other men's leather.
It's ill waiting for dead men's shoes.
Every one in his own house, and God in all men's.
A good paymaster is keeper of other men's purses.
Who arrays himself in other men's garments is stripped on the highway.
Women's quarrels cause the men's wars.
Those who do not study are only cattle dressed up in men's clothes.
Easy to know men's faces, not their hearts.
Doctor's faults are covered with earth, and rich men's with money.
Young men's knocks old men feel.
Silver and gold are all men's dears.
He who waits for dead men's shoes, may have to go long barefoot.
Great men's requests are commands.
Much wisdom is lost in poor men's mouths.
Children are poor men's riches.
He who buys by the pennyworth keeps his own house and other men's too.
Look not out for dead men's shoes.
Poor men's money and cowards' weapons are often flourished.
Wise men learn by other men's harms; fools, by their own.
All men are free of other men's goods.
Look not out for dead men's shoes.
Men's skins have many colors, but human blood is always red.
Look not out for dead men's shoes.
Of other men's leather large thongs.
Who is always prying into other men's affairs, leads a dangerous life.
Women's jars breed men's wars.
Old men's children are rarely of good constitution.
Wise men learn by other men men's harms, fools by their own.
Children are poor men's riches.
He that waits for dead men's shoes may go long enough barefoot.
A king's chaff is worth more than other men's corn.
First mend yourself, and then mend others.
Do not mend your neighbor's fence before seeing to your own.
It's never too late to mend.
Chastise the good and he will mend, chastise the bad and he will grow worse.
People who do not mend things first will never produce something.
If you are praised by a villain, mend your ways at once.
Don't mend what ain't broken.
He who does not mend his clothes will soon have none.
It's easier to tear a hole than to mend one.
All the smiths . . . can't mend a broken egg.
Whoever tears his clothes must mend them himself.
Get the coffin ready and watch the man mend.
If you don't mend up a small crack on the wall you end up building the entire wall.
From beavers, bees should learn to mend their ways. A bee works; a beaver works and plays.
If thou seest ought amiss, mend it in thyself.
The best go first, the bad remain to mend.
'tis never too late to mend.
Hard is for any man all faults to mend.
Ilk man mend ane, and all will be mendit.
When things are at the worst they begin to mend.
In the end things will mend.
He who does not whip the child does not mend the youth.
Mend the pen only after the sheep are all gone.
Mend or end.
While it is fine weather, mend your sail.
Better the certainty of the straddle than the mere loan of a saddle.
Mere words do not feed the friars.
If deeds are wanting, all words appear mere vanity and emptiness.
Mere life is not a victory, mere death is not a defeat.
Words are mere bubbles of water, but deeds are drops of gold.
Once bitten by a snake, he is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope.
A farmer does not conclude by the mere look of it that a corn is unripe; he tears it open for examination.
A plaster house, a horse at grass, a friend in words, are all mere glass.
Treat everything of this world as mere vanity.
What reveals itself to me ceases to be mysterious for me alone if I unveil it to anyone else, he hears mere words which betray the living sense Profanation, but never revelation.
What's drinking? / A mere pause from thinking. (Lord Byron)
When the master is away, the frogs hop in.
When the master of the house tells a lie, and then offers him a chair.
A good servant makes a good master.
For his master the dog is a lion.
When money is not a servant it is a master.
Vices are learned without a master.
Master and servant - both have the same body odor.
You are only master of food that you haven't yet eaten.
A slave shows his true character, not while he is enslaved but when he becomes a master.
Better a wise man's servant than an idiot's master.
Money is a good servant but a had master.
A bad man's gift is like his master.
Money is a good servant, but an evil master.
Everyone is master of their own fear.
He who has a boss is not the master of his burden.
Nothing is so difficult that diligence cannot master it.
The dog says: "master, my life is far too good, hurt me in the tail.”.
The eye of a master does more work than both his hands.
Fire is a good servant but a poor master.
A knife does not know who is its master.
A slave does not choose his master.
Before you beat the dog, find out the name of his master.
One can see it but must not say, when the master of a house passes excreta in a pot.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
Where every man is master the world goes to wreck.
The Spaniard is a bad servant but a worse master.
Fire is a good servant but a bad master.
He who serves the people has a bad master.
Let your purse be your master.
Apelles was not a master painter the first day.
Many a pupil has gained more wealth than his master.
What is another's always sighs for its master.
The master orders the man, the man orders the cat, and the cat orders her tail.
Jack is as good as his master.
The mad dog bites its master.
A drunk's ass has no master.
When the master has a cold the servants sneeze.
You are my guide, my lord, and my master.
He who eats pears with his master should not choose the best.
One eye of the master sees more than four eyes of his servants.
A wicked man's gift has a touch of his master.
He is master of another man's life who is indifferent to his own.
He who has a mate has a master.
He who serves the public has a sorry master.
One with the courage to laugh is master of the world almost as much as the one who is ready to die.
If the master gets drunk it is an honorable drunkenness; if the servant does it is evidence of his mean disposition.
A clever master turns even a loss into a gain.
Beat the dog; wait for its master.
What can a cat do if its master is crazy.
It is better to be a master in a cottage than servant in a castle.
Nothing so bad but it finds its master.
Every man is master in his own house.
He who pays well is master of another man's purse.
To become a master or a deadman.
One is one's own master on one's own stove.
The eye of the master does more than his two hands.
Be the master of your will and the slave of your conscience.
When a once-beautiful piece of cloth has turned into rags, no one remembers that it was woven by Ukwa master weavers.
When the master is absent, the frogs hop into the house.
The food which is prepared has no master.
Be master of mind rather than mastered by mind.
To follow the path, look to the master, follow the master, walk with the master, see through the master, become the master.
If money be not thy servant, it will be thy master.
A dog won't forsake his master because of poverty; a son never deserts his mother because of her homely appearance.
The emperor is the father of his people, not a master to be served by slaves.
He who is master of himself cannot tolerate another boss.
A dog never forgets his master.
The mouth does not know limitations of its master.
Those who master to climb trees with their teeth are in better position to tell which barks are bitter.
A scared dog barks to pretend to its master but a brave dog bits to protect him.
Fire is a good slave, but a bad master.
Abuse is like a god that destroys his master.
Everyone has his master.
Fire is a good servant but a bad master.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
The slave must be content with the joys of his master.
While the word is yet unspoken, you are master of it; when once it is spoken, it is master of you.
Time is the master of him who has no master.
The eye of the master makes the horse fat.
The eye of the master will do more than both his hands.
He who rides the horse is his master.
Where might is the master, justice is the servant.
When the devil reigns today God will be master tomorrow.
What Master Jacky does not learn, Mr. John never knows.
Every one has his master.
No man's master, no master's man.
If the servant grows rich and the master poor, they are both good for nothing.
As the master, so the work.
The cat knows who's meat it has eaten.
Neither fish nor meat.
That smells bad, said the cat about meat that it cannot reach.
The earth is a giant cooking pot and men are the meat therein.
The poor eat meat when they bite their tongues.
A sleeping fox finds no meat.
Cheap meat never makes a good soup.
A bellyful is one of meat, drink, or sorrow.
Because the cat was given no meat, he said it was Friday.
Meat that the cat brings in never gets to your plate.
He who shares the meat is always left with the bone.
He is truly hungry who accepts defeat in a fight over meat.
Don't teach the tiger cub to eat meat.
Before one cooks, one must have the meat.
No land without stones, no meat without bones.
The bone given to you by the king is meat.
The soup would be none the worse for more meat.
The tongue is the worst piece of meat in the world.
It is ill done to chain a dragon for roasting your meat.
You can use salt to prevent meat from rotting, but what will you use to prevent salt from rotting?
Salt preserves meat, but what can be done with salt if it is bad.
At a hunting expedition you cannot apportion the meat before you kill the animal.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
Meat is much, but manners is better.
Kill no more than you can salt, or you will have tainted meat.
Priestly knaves sweat hard at their meat, but never at work get into a heat.
As honest as a cat when the meat is out of reach.
Much meat, much maladies.
Lean meat from a fat pig.
A cat that licks the spit is not to be trusted with roast meat.
Sweet meat requires sour sauce.
Better a mouse in the pot than no meat at all.
Milk for a child, meat for a man, beer for the old.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat.
Who looks for meat will find a bone.
Don't have the appetite of Miss Julia who, when she had meat, wanted chick peas.
A cat always knows whose meat it eats.
When you can't get meat, chickens and bacon are good.
Better to eat beans in peace than to eat meat in distress.
As the meat, so its broth.
Meat and mass never hindered man.
Before one cooks, one must have the meat.
Much meat, much disease.
No one roasts rotten meat and puts it in the mouth of their friend and then says ‘you mouth stinks.'
Slow moving lion eats meat.
The lion which moves silently is the one that eats meat.
One's own meat dishes are not as delicious as other's vegetarian ones.
Of all meat in the world drink goes down the best.
Look not at thieves eating meat, but look at them suffering punishment.
A man accused of stealing a goat should not entertain his visitors with goats meat.
Be aware of a man with a sweet tongue he can lead you to buying bad meat.
The teeth that stink together are the ones to bite the meat.
The one you minimise could be eating meat everyday.
The teeth that cannot move in unison cannot bit a piece of meat.
Eating tough meat is always harder for a toothless lion.
It's evil to give meat to those who do not eat meat.
Small birds must have meat.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat.
Medicines be not meat to live by.
Take heed of enemies reconciled, and of meat twice boiled.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
If you buy cheap meat, you'll smell what you have saved when it boils.
If meat is expensive then patience is cheap.
If you buy cheap meat, when it boils you smell what you have saved.
God never sends mouths but he sends meat.
Honor buys no meat in the market.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
God sends us the meat, but it is the Devil who sends us cooks.
No meat ever remains in the shambles however bad it may be.
After meat, mustard.
Cheap meat yields dilute soup.
Better belly burst than good meat lost.
Take heed of reconciled enemies and of meat twice boiled.
God sends meat and the devil sends cooks.
Ane mans meat is another mans poyson.
God sends never the mouth, but the meat with it.
Meat is good, but Mense is better.
Meat makes, and clothes shapes, but manners makes a man.
A hungry man smells meat far.
Bread and cheese is gude to eat when folk can get nae ither meat.
Eaten meat is good to pay.
Lang fasting hains nae meat.
When an elephant falls, meat is sure to be surplus for those who follow the hunter.
Meat does not eat meat.
He's like the rulers of la Rocca: a lot of smoke and no meat.
You can't have meat without the bone.
Eat meat and fish and live longer.
The ends justify the means.
Too much discussion means a quarrel.
If he has thrown the only spear he had at you, it means that he doesn't fear you.
Learning means loving the country.
To promise much means giving little.
He who make more of you than he is wont, either means to cheat you or wants you.
Not shooting means always missing.
The union of means triumphs over the lion.
By all means make friends with the dog, but do not lay aside the stick.
When a merchant talks about sheep he means the hide.
The poor can only guess at what wealth is; the rich don't know what poverty means.
The existence of the sea means the existence of pirates.
Philosophy means being able to explain why you are happy when you are poor.
He who wipes the child's nose, means to kiss the mother's cheek.
A young doctor means a new graveyard.
Like blood, like means, and like age, make the happiest marriage.
Would you have me serve you, good king, give me the means of living.
The dog that means to bite don't bark.
No means, no market.
A guest will not know what fasting means.
Marriage without love-making means sad consequences and sorrow.
If you want a celebration provide the means.
If you are looking for a fly in your food it means that you are full.
The death of one person means bread for another.
He means well, but has a bad way of showing it.
The purpose sanctifies the means.
Different culture means different custom.
Different background means different thinking.
By fair means or foul.
The man who has plenty of means of existence, conducts himself pretty much as he himself wishes.
Strive to live well within your means.
When weeds invade the land, it means the owner is absent.
To despise the ox means to despise also a strip of hide from it.
If a frog leaves the swamp for the mountains, it means it is in danger.
If a man gives you a basket to carry water, it means that he hates you.
Forgetting your native tongue means forgetting your native country.
After all, harming others means you first harm yourself.
To listen well is as powerful a means of influence as to talk well and is as essential to all true conversation.
If you cannot moan in a true cultural manner then it means your laughing.
True love means what's mine is yours.
Judge a Dutchman by what he means, not by what he says.
A dirty floor means a busy stove.
When a man repeats a promise again and again, he means to fail you.
Silence means consent.
He who wills the end, wills the means.
If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to. [If fair means cannot, foul shall.].
The end justifies the means.
The end justifies the means.
Love, should i escape your snares, i doubt that i can be trapped by any other means.
Goo tool means half the work.
The purpose consecrates the means.
He that promises too much means nothing.
One kisses the child and means the nurse.
An evening rainbow means good weather in the morning, a rainbow in the morning fills wells and fountains.
A dry January means a filled hayloft.
One who lives within his means can be said to be rich.
A red sky means either water or wind; if it doesn't rain, it will be fair weather.
To come out of one's house means learning.
When the devil says his paternosters he means to cheat you.
For a poor man, to prepare for a trip means belt himself.
Moses does not play because he has not the means.
The end justifies the means.
By good means or bad.
Live not beyond your means.
He either wheedles by suasive means or terrifies by threats.
A lot of donkeys means a lot of hay.
Sin means nothing but the consequences.
I grew up knowing it's wrong to have more than you need. It means you're not taking care of your people.
With the three means of punishment, words, thoughts and acts, ye shall not injure living things.
To know means to record in one's memory but to understand means to blend with the thing and to assimilate it oneself.
A prejudice is a vagrant opinion without visible means of support. (Ambrose Bierce)
Не that promises too much means nothing.
Humor is an important asset: it means understanding and self-criticism. where humor is absent, you'll find small-mindedness.
The national anthem of Iceland is known as as "Ó Guð vors lands” which means "God of our Land”.
A bountiful pear harvest means shortages of everything else.
To despise the ox means to despise also a strip of hide from it.
The means were wanting, not the will.
I complained because I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
I met a hundred men going to Delhi and everyone is my brother.
I felt sorry for myself because I had no shoes - until I met a man who had no feet.
Like a Buddha met with in hell.
Though separation be hard, two never met but had to part.
One trick is met by another.
I complained I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
Hail, fellow, well met.
The scythe has met the stone.
The greedy man and the gileynour are weel met.
One knavery is met by another.
If you wish your merit to be known, acknowledge that of other people.
Merit is often an obstacle to fortune; the reason is it produces two bad effects, envy and fear.
A single merit cannot make a hundred demerits fade; a hundred merits cannot hide a single demerit.
Merit and glory never adorn a nightcap.
It is but a small merit to observe silence, but it is a grave fault to speak of matters on which we should be silent.
Merit consists in action.
Merit is often belied by the countenance.
A single merit cannot make a hundred demerits fade.
The test of merit is success.
It is foolish for someone to remain thirsty when he is in the midst of water.
The fool is thirsty in the midst of a downpour.
Fowls will not spare a cockroach that falls in their midst.
A slipshod man wastes away in the midst of plenty.
In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter.
Poverty with security is better than plenty in the midst of fear and uncertainty.
Advice given in the midst of a crowd is loathsome.
Poor though in the midst of wealth.
In the midst of our mirth some annoyance always arises to vex us.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The rich become deaf and the mighty blind.
The anger of a woman is mighty and the devil's trickery weak.
From little acorns mighty oaks do grow.
Whiskey on beer, never fear. Beer on whiskey, mighty risky.
Along silence followed by mighty noise.
A reed before the wind lives on, while mighty oaks do fall.
Little drops of water, little grains of sand, make the mighty ocean and the pleasant land.
Who is mighty? One who makes an enemy into a friend.
The pleasures of the mighty are the tears of the poor.
Mighty oaks from little acorns grow.
Out of small acorns grow mighty oaks.
Nanni cherished his old age. [...] He captured Simurrum, but [...] he never saw mighty kingship. Thus Nanni was carried off to the nether world.
The mighty man is master of the earth.
When the mighty fall on hard times, they are disrespected by all.
Silence has a mighty noise.
Though pepper is a tiny thing, its taste is mighty powerful.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
A miss is as good as a mile.
Walk a mile in my moccasins to learn where they pinch.
A miss by an inch is a miss by a mile.
Never criticize a man until you've walked a mile in his moccasins.
A miss is as good as a mile.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
After dinner, rest; after supper walk a mile.
A mile walk with a friend has only one hundred steps.
Great Spirit, grant that I may not criticize my neighbor until I have walked a mile in his moccasins.
After dinner sit awhile; after supper walk a mile.
Talking a mile a minute.
The next mile is the only one a person really has to make.
After dinner stand a while, or walk nearly half a mile.
Water runs a whole mile downstream easier than an inch upstream.
Stay a while, and lose a mile.
After dinner rest a while, after supper walk a mile.
A miss is as good as a mile.
Don't judge a man until you have walked a mile in his boots.
After supper walk a mile.
A miss is as good as a mile.
He wad gang a mile to flit a sow.
The white coat does not make the miller.
Every honest miller has a thumb of gold.
A usurer, a miller, a banker, and a publican, are the four evangelists of Lucifer.
The miller is never so drunk that he forgets to take his dues.
The water runs while the miller sleeps.
We beat the sack and mean the miller.
Much water passes by the mill that the miller perceives not.
In vain is the mill-clock if the miller his hearing lack.
Mickle Water runs, where the Miller sleeps.
When a miller fights with a chimney sweep, the miller gets black and the chimney sweep gets white.
When the miller is also the mayor, there are two thieves in one pair of trousers.
Too much water drowned the miller.
Every miller draws the water to his own mill.
The miller sees not every wave that flows.
Black miller and white blacksmith are shocking in front of the God.
Too much water drowned the miller.
The miller has a fat pig, but I've no idea by whose grain it is fed.
The mills of the gods grind slowly but they grind finely.
Passed waters can't move the mills.
Mills and wives are ever wanting.
God's mills mill slowly, but surely.
Water is the strongest drink; it drives mills.
The mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small.
The mills of god grind slowly, yet they grind exceedingly small.
The mills of God grind slowly, but surely.
If everyone were a gentleman, who would make the mills work?
Better to lose a minute in your life than your life in a minute.
There's one born every minute.
There's a fool born every minute – and every one of them lives.
It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead the rest of your life.
One minute of patience can mean ten years of peace.
One minute of patience, ten years of peace.
One minute of patience can result in ten years of peace.
Heroism consists of hanging on one minute longer.
To be a hero hang on for a minute longer.
Wait a minute! wait a minute! harms the stomach.
You can drive sixty miles a minute, but there is no future in it.
There's a fool born every minute.
A fool can ask more questions in a minute than a wise man can answer in an hour.
Talking a mile a minute.
Take hold of a good minute.
If it weren't for the last minute, nothing would ever get done.
A cherry year, a merry year; a plum year, a dumb year.
The more the merrier.
A merry companion on the road is as good as a nag.
Better the cottage where one is merry than the palace where one weeps.
A merry heart goes all the way.
The more the merrier.
It's the merry drizzle that makes grass grow fine.
Some sing who are not merry.
A merry host makes merry guests.
Be merry, Shrovetide, for to-morrow thou wilt be ashes.
Eat, drink and be merry.
Eat drink and be merry.
I am not a merry man.
He that is of a merry heart hasth a continual feast.
The more the merrier.
Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow your wife may come home.
Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we shall die.
A merry host makes merry guests.
A merry heart makes a long life.
The mae the merrier, the fewer the better cheer.
A merry life forgets father and mother.
When a man is in a hurry, the devil is merry.
The more the merrier.
Here's to a long life and a merry one. A quick death and an easy one. A pretty girl and an honest one. A cold pint and another one!
A merry life ends in a poor man's will.
As lang lives the merry man as the sad.
[Theу/we] Ate and drank and make merry. Then [they/we] counted and shed tears.
Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle.
Do not change horses in the middle of the river.
Setting the conditions before you make an agreement is better than having an argument in the middle of the work.
Put the priest in the middle of the parish.
He who wants milk should not sit in the middle of a field and wait for a cow to back up to him.
A rock in the middle of the sea is never afraid of the rain.
From middle age on, everything of interest is either illegal, immoral or fattening.
Leave a great talker in the middle of the street.
If the king says that it is night in the middle of the day, look up at the stars.
The middle path is the safe path.
The supreme treasure is knowledge, the middle treasure is children, and the lowest treasure is material wealth.
I wish to see him when I see the middle of my back.
The bocor gives you a protective charm, but he doesn't tell you to sleep in the middle of the highway.
The young man plays the flute, the middle aged man plays the harpsichord, the old man plays the organ.
The tree in the middle of the road is shaken by everyone.
The choice oil is from the surface, the best wine is from the middle, and the best honey is from the bottom.
A middle course is the safest.
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
Away away off the police's way, the police goes middle of the roadǃ.
A middle of the roader is one who is apt to have trouble on the one hand and also on the other.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
It is too late for a galloping horse to stop at a clip; it is useless for a sinking boat to be mended in the middle of a river.
Do not change horses in the middle of the river.
The beginning hot, the middle lukewarm, the end cold.
The money marries the daughter even if she had an eye in the middle of forehead.
His/her thumb is the middle of the palm of hand.
Take the middle of the way and thou wilt not fall.
He is miserable once, who feels it; but twice, who fear it before it comes.
He is miserable indeed that must lock up his miseries.
Who fails to show restraint in their youth, will be miserable in their old age.
It's sin and not poverty that makes men miserable.
Who leaves the boat on water is miserable.
Most men employ the earlier part of their life to make the other miserable.
It is a solace to the miserable to have a companion in their grief.
A ruined people are as miserable as a dog in the house of death.
The contented are always happy; the discontented are ever miserable.
Who is wise? He who learns from all men.
Wise men honor their wives.
Adam was the luckiest of men: he had no mother-in-law.
Children will tell you what they do, men what they think and older people what they have seen and heard.
The tongue of men is the whip of God.
One volunteer is worth two pressed men.
Blind men can judge no colours.
Men have three ears: one on the left of the head, one on the right of the head, and one in the heart.
Some men will build a wine cellar when they have found just one grape.
Men will love each other as long as one is richer than the other.
Old men sit in the shade because they planted a tree many years before.
The earth is a giant cooking pot and men are the meat therein.
Better to be guilty in the eyes of men than in the eyes of God.
Old men and poodles are good for nothing.
The hunt is like a dance for men, for the women the dance is the hunt.
Behind every able man, there are always other able men.
Birds are caught with seed, men with money.
Women are stronger than men, they do not die of wisdom.
Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
Courteous men learn courtesy from the discourteous.
The best of men are but men at best.
You can close the city gates but not the mouths of men.
Choleric men are blind and mad.
Dead men tell no tales.
Pigs in the cold and men in drink make a great noise.
In church, in the taverns, and in coffins all men are equal.
Without men in the neighborhood all the women are chaste.
Honest men marry soon, wise men never.
Water, smoke, and a vicious woman, drive men out of the house.
Men will always lose the battle against cholera and bureaucracy.
Wise men philosophize as the fools live on.
Men made money; money never made men.
When two poor men help each other, God laughs.
Men for tea, women for talk.
Different men have different opinions; Some like apples, some onions.
Compare your griefs with those of other men and they will seem less.
Science makes men arrogant; wealth makes them fools.
Faces of men we see but not their hearts.
Some men build a wine cellar after only finding one grape.
Only men with thick lips should smoke a cigar.
Fidelity in a king, promise in men.
With fowls, the pedigree; with men, breeding.
Pride and dignity would belong to women if only men would leave them alone.
Just as a bamboo cane forms a round jet of water, so taking counsel together makes men of one mind.
To the dog who has money, men say: my lord dog.
One who does not travel will not know that value of men.
I grew up among wise men and found that there is nothing better for man than silence.
When all men say you are a dog, it is time to bark.
They are happy, the free men that have their fathers.
Foresight could make wise men of durraman's donkeys.
Only men laugh, only men weep, only men dance.
The world goes as men make it go; and men are free to make it go otherwise, if they have the courage.
Ten men, ten minds.
One can stand still in a flowing stream, but not in a world of men.
Poor men sleep the best.
Ten men, ten tastes.
The gods just laugh when men pray to them for wealth.
If two selfish young men sit next to a pot of water, the water spills out on the ground.
Don't waste good iron for nails or good men for soldiers.
Beware of women with beards and men without beards.
The deep sea can be fathomed, but who knows the hearts of men?
A mad man drops a rock into water well, so that thousand wise men can not take it out.
Some men wonder over God's values, others over the cut of a garment.
The song sang by men when going to hunt is not the same song they sing when they come back.
Fools make feasts and wise men eat them.
All men are fools, but all fools are not men.
Cunning men deal in generalizations.
All men are not cast in the same mold.
Fools enter where brave men fear to tread.
In great action, men show themselves as they ought to be, in small action as they are.
Men apt to promise are apt to forget.
Men are blind in their own cause.
Men that have much business must have much pardon.
There are many witty men whose brains can't fill their bellies.
Fear no man, and do justice to all men.
Keep good men company, and you shall be of the number.
A man among children will long be a child; a child among men will soon be a man.
All clever men are birds of prey.
Blind men should not judge of colours.
Old men, when they marry young women, make much of death.
Poor men go to heaven as soon as rich.
Men are not angels.
Men are best loved farthest off.
A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot; a dog travelling with good men becomes a rational being.
Be sure to have a controversial opinion, and men will talk about you.
The men are the wool of the tribe, but the women are the ones who weave the pattern.
There is no reason for war that reasonable men can't settle.
Children and drunken men speak the truth.
The end of mirth is the beginning of sorrow.
Mirth is the sugar of life.
The heart's mirth does make the face fair.
Sorrow treads upon the heels of mirth.
One for sorrow; two for mirth; three for a wedding; four for a birth.
If age and experience came at birth, We would have neither youth nor mirth.
Indulge not in boisterous mirth.
In the midst of our mirth some annoyance always arises to vex us.
Mirth must be indulged in to prepare the mind for more serious matters.
Wine is given to bring mirth not drunkenness.
A miser and a liar bargain quickly.
A miser is ever in want.
The miser destroys what he collected.
A miser and his persimmon seeds.
The poor man wants much, the miser everything.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth.
A proud pauper and a rich miser are contemptible beings.
When a miser dies, the heirs feel as happy as when they kill a pig.
The generous man enriches himself by giving; the miser hoards himself poor.
Let the salad-maker be a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a statesman for salt, and a madman for tossing.
Do not be like a miser who saves for those who will bury him.
The miser does not own the gold, it is the gold that owns the miser.
The miser is his own mother-in-law.
The miser and the open-handed spend the same in long run.
The miser and the pig are of no use till dead.
The miser will stubbornly live poorly in order to die rich.
Friendship is a prodigal, but love is a miser.
The miser is always in want.
Words have no wings but they can fly many thousands of miles.
A 1000 miles journey starts with a single step.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with one step.
An aged steed confined to the stable still aspires after the glory of galloping a thousand miles.
Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark.
One's own spurs and another's horse make the miles short.
Good company makes short miles.
Hired horses make short miles.
Halfway is twelve miles when you have fourteen miles to go.
An evil act runs a thousand miles.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
What is told in the ear of a man is often heard a hundred miles away.
Good deeds never leave home, bad ones echo a thousand miles.
Deviate an inch, lose a thousand miles.
A bad word whispered will echo a hundred miles.
A one-inch error at the start can be a thousand miles at the end.
Over a distance of a thousand miles only humanity works, not power.
You can stay a thousand miles away from home and still see inside.
You can drive sixty miles a minute, but there is no future in it.
Cheerful company shortens the miles.
What is an expert? Someone who is twenty miles from home.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
Even though words have no wings, they can still fly a thousand miles. Even if you encounter a stone bridge, tap it first before crossing. Through old things, we learn new things.
The crab that walks miles too far will fall into the pot.
A hired horse and one's own spurs make short miles.
A journey of a thousand miles always begins with a single step.
When I think of the others's misfortunes, I forget mine.
Better mine than ours.
Eat of your own, and call yourself mine.
He is no friend that eats his own by himself, and mine with me.
Better is my neighbour's hen than mine.
What I believe in is all that is mine.
When your devil was born, mine was going to school.
Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord.
You're correct, but the goat is mine.
Do not rejoice at my grief, for when mine is old yours will be new.
Go in God's name, for he takes a loaf of mine.
Ours is ours, but mine is mine.
You pay attention to your fek'lhr and I will pay attention to mine.
True love means what's mine is yours.
He who is no friend to the good cause is no friend of mine.
When ye ca' the dog out o' your ain kail-yaird, dinna ca't into mine.
What bird so white as mine? says the crow.
The headache is mine and the cows are ours.
I know by mine own pot how others boil.
I'm not me, and [this] horse isn't mine (, and I'm not a cabman)
My neighbour's goat gives more milk than mine.
That country will I call mine which supports me, not that which gave me birth.
He is no friend that eats his own by himself and mine with me.
On flows the time, half full still the heart of mine, coffee, smoking, all is fine.
There are two selves, the separate ego and the indivisible Atman. When one rises above I and me and mine, the Atman is revealed as one's real Self.
You're correct, but the goat is mine.
When ye ca' the dog out o' your ain kail-yaird, dinna ca't into mine.
Hope is the nurse of misery.
Hope is the physician of each misery.
Idleness moves so slowly that it will be overtaken by misery.
Hunger is misery; a full stomach is trouble.
Pride in prosperity turns to misery in adversity.
Misery loves company.
Misery and poverty are two sisters; discord is their first cousin.
The memory of happiness makes misery woeful.
Each day has enough of its own misery.
An ounce of luck is better than a pound of misery.
A girl unemployed is thinking of mischief.
Wherever there is mischief, there is sure to be a priest and a woman in it.
When you see a goat you should always hit him, because he is either going into mischief or coming out of it.
The moth does most mischief to the finest garment.
Who is up to mischief will get beaten.
Every one is wise when the mischief is done.
He who keeps a secret prevents much mischief.
Let not turn fun to mischief.
Mischief has swift wings.
Advice after the mischief is like medicine after death.
He that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
Repentance won't cure mischief.
The mother of mischief is na mair nor a midgewing.
The mair mischief the better sport.
Who begs for the sake of mischief steals from the God.
A secretive person is up to some mischief.
The wolf commits no mischief at home.
The fox does not do as much mischief in a year as it pays for in an hour.
The mother of mischief is no bigger than a midge's wing.
Repentance won't cure mischief.
No mischief but a woman or a priest is at the bottom of it.
Не that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
He that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
If the potato misses, Ireland's beaten.
Whoever wants to hurt never misses his target.
A hasty person misses the sweet things.
Не that seeks trouble never misses.
The rabbit gets fat on what the hare misses.
He who desires all, misses all.
The devil never misses the bus.
Even though he misses his duck, he will not miss his lake.
He that seeks trouble never misses.
He that seeks trouble, never misses.
When wine comes in, modesty leaves.
When wine enters modesty departs.
If you have wit and learning, add to it wisdom and modesty.
Where wine goes in, modesty goes out.
Modesty is the beauty of women.
Little beard, little modesty.
Rare is agreement between beauty and modesty.
Modesty is the beauty of women.
And Modesty, who, when she goes, Is gone for ever.
As the tree, so the fruit; as the mistress, so the maid.
If you can kiss the mistress, never kiss the maid.
Desperation is the mistress of the impossible.
Diligence is the mistress of success.
Experience is the mistress of fools.
Hackney mistress, Hackney maid.
He whose mistress squints, says the ogles.
As the mistress, so the maid.
The mistress is queen, the wife is the slave.
They whip the cat, if our mistress does not spin.
Nurse, you are mistress whilst the child sucks, and after that nothing.
I mistress and you miss, who is to sweep the house?
One should not remove what belongs to my mistress Inana.
Never seemed prison fair, or mistress foul.
A miss by an inch is a miss by a mile.
Don't respond to a mosquito bit with a stone because you you will miss it and hunt yourself.
Never miss a good chance to shut up.
A miss is as good as a mile.
You never miss the water till the well has run dry.
From plate to mouth you miss the soup.
Don't have the appetite of Miss Julia who, when she had meat, wanted chick peas.
No one so sure but he may miss.
Wha' ain't pass yuh ain't miss yuh.
You never miss a slice from a cut loaf.
Drink is the curse of the land. It makes you fight with your neighbour. It makes you shoot at your landlord – and it makes you miss him.
A good marksman may miss.
You don't miss the cow until the stall is empty.
If you find "Miss This Year" beautiful, then you'll find "Miss Next Year" even more so.
Even though he misses his duck, he will not miss his lake.
I mistress and you miss, who is to sweep the house?
A miss is as good as a mile.
You don't always miss the bus. Sometimes, it misses you.
Miss summer and flies, the poor man would have friends.
A miss is as good as a mile.
Meaning: "Those who are late to act, arrive, or get up tend to miss opportunities already seized by those who came earlier."
You never miss the water till the well runs dry.
A mother is gold, a father is a mirror.
There is no better mirror than the face of an old friend.
Fallen blossoms do not return to branches; a broken mirror does not again reflect.
You can mirror something from other people; you can only give out that which is your own.
A man's conversation is the mirror of his thoughts.
Before you begin to trade in blame look in the mirror.
An uneducated person is like an unpolished mirror.
If you have a good friend, you don't need a mirror.
A friend's eye is a good mirror.
He who has a true friend, has no need of a mirror.
Muddy water won't do for a mirror.
A mirror doesn't know how to lie.
The eyes are the mirror of the soul.
If your face skewed, don't blame the mirror.
They took away the mirror from me because I was ugly, and gave it to the blind woman.
The best mirror is a friend's eye.
A friend's eye is a good mirror.
There's no better mirror than an old friend.
There is no better mirror than a best friend.
The eyes are the mirror of the soul.
Your best mirror is someone more beautiful than you.
The best mirror of all is an old friend.
There is no better mirror than a best friend.
Even if you close your eyes while looking in the mirror the image remains yours.
Don't question a blind man for buying a mirror, it must serve him some purpose.
The monkey looks into the mirror and sees a gazelle.
A child's face is his mirror.
The tongue is the mirror of the stomach.
In the mirror everybody sees his best friend.
Deprive a mirror of its silver and even the czar won't see his face.
Man is his own mirror.
No mirror ever reflected an ugly woman.
The best mirror is an old friend.
Wine is the mirror of the mind.
The best place for criticism is in front of your mirror.
The only real true supporter the politician sees in the mirror.
The eyes are the mirror of the soul.
The mirror will show you whatever you show it.
A friend's eye is a good mirror.
An obscure style is a blind mirror.
Eyes are the mirror of mind.
The eye is the mirror of the soul.
A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks, an ugly girl by the help of a mirror.
Life is like honey and the bride like a mirror.
An oven and mill are nurseries of news.
The slow horse reaches the mill.
He who has been at the mill has flour on his hat.
Everyone tries to make the water flow to his mill.
First come to the mill, first grind.
Can a mill go with the water that's past?
If you will learn news, you must go to the oven or the mill.
The corn that is taken to a bad mill. will be badly ground.
The ass carries corn to the mill, and gets thistles.
If you don't want flour on your shoes, don't go into the mill.
If you don't want flour, do not get into the mill.
By going gains the mill, and not by standing still.
A mill and a wife are always in want of something.
Drink wine and let water go to the mill.
The mill does not grind without water.
A little stream drives a great mill.
Every one goes with his own sack to the mill.
He who goes to the mill gets befloured.
God's mills mill slowly, but surely.
He drives the water to the mill of somebody.
Turning the water to his own mill.
Who arrives at the mill first, grinds.
An ass with her colt goes not straight to the mill.
He is my friend who grinds at my mill.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
Old and new millet seeds end up in the same mill.
All's grist that comes to the mill.
All ways lead to the mill.
In every village, there is a path that leads to the mill.
No mill, no meal.
A mill cannot grind with water that is past.
The corn will bend but it still ends up in the mill.
A greedy mill grinds all kinds of corn.
He is my friend that grindeth at my mill.
Every man must go to the mill with his own sack.
Every man must carry his own sack to the mill.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
The mill does not grind with water that is past.
He is my friend who grinds at my mill.
The first at the mill grinds first.
Every one draws the water to his own mill.
Much water passes by the mill that the miller perceives not.
Water past will not turn the mill.
Each draws water to his own mill.
The dog gets into the mill under cover of the ass.
One cannot be at the oven and the mill at the same time.
The mill does not grind with water that is past.
Every miller draws the water to his own mill.
It is the master-wheel that makes the mill go round.
He who remains in the mill grinds, not he who goes to and fro.
The mill gains by gong, and not by standing still.
Every one wishes to bring water to his own mill, and leave his neighbour's dry.
It's all grist to the mill.
First to the mill will first grind.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
Let every man carry his own sack to the mill.
God's mill goes slowly, but it grinds well.
Let every man carry his own sack to the mill.
God's mill grinds very finely.
God's mill grinds slow but sure.
Do not set the mill on fire in order to burn the mice.
The first at the mill can grind the first.
The mill does not grind with water that is past.
A tear at the right moment is better than a misplaced smile.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will spare yourself one hundred days of tears.
One moment is worth more than a thousand gold pieces.
One moment of intense happiness prolongs life by a thousand years.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow.
That happens in a moment which may not happen in a hundred years.
All the treasures of earth cannot bring back one lost moment.
A king for a moment, and a beggar soon after.
Life cannot be trusted; death can come at any moment.
The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life.
A warrior is not a wrestler, he's killed the moment is spear and shield are over powered.
April weather, woman's love, rose-leaves, dice, and card-luck, change every moment.
A quotation at the right moment is like bread to the hungry.
What breaks in a moment may take years to mend.
A woman and the wind change every moment.
Avoid the bad, love the good, because things change in a moment.
All of the Earth's treasures can't bring back a lost moment.
What does not happen in a year may happen in a moment.
In a noble man, anger lasts for a moment in a worldly man for two hours in a base man for a day and in an evil man until death.
Enjoy every moment because life is short.
To dare is to lose your foothold for a moment, to not dare is to lose yourself.
You have lent and not recovered; and if recovered, not so much; and if so much, not such; and if such, a mortal enemy.
In men every mortal sin is venial, in women every venial sin is mortal.
All men are mortal.
Like the body that is made up of different limbs and organs, all mortal creatures exist depending upon one another.
Luck is the friend of jackasses and the crazy; it's a mortal enemy of the virtuous.
He who passes a winter's day passes one of his mortal enemies.
Thou too art mortal.
But mortal bliss will never come sincere Pleasure may lead, but grief blow brings up the rear.
All mortal creatures exist depending upon one another.
A coward often deals a mortal blow to the brave.
Not to wish to recover is a mortal symptom.
Wait for a month before you praise a horse, and for a year before you praise a woman.
February may be short but it's the worst month.
If you still have money in the month of May, you'll have it the entire year.
The cuckoo comes in April, and stays the month of May; sings a song at midsummer, and then goes away.
A day of grief lasts longer than a month of joy.
A day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy.
April is the cruellest month.
If you would be happy for a week take a wife; if you would be happy for a month kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life plant a garden.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter a pig and you will be happy for a month; become a priest and you will be happy for the rest of your life.
They marry under bad auspices who marry in the month of May.
Sometime, but not this month.
If you want happiness for an hour, take a nap. If you want happiness for a day, go fishing. If you want happiness for a month, get married. If you want happiness for a year, inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime, help someone else.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap. If you want happiness for a day -- go fishing. If you want happiness for a month -- get married. If you want happiness for a year -- inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime -- help someone else.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
Where there is sugar, there are mice.
You can't catch skunks with mice.
A cat with gloves never catches mice.
It is not from the love of God that the cat catches mice.
Keep no more cats that will catch mice.
When the mice laugh at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
Don't set the attic on fire just because you didn't catch any mice.
The dream of cats is all mice.
Talk about things of tomorrow and the mice inside the ceiling laugh.
Cats don't catch mice to please God.
Keep no more cats than catch mice.
The watch-dog does not get sweet milk unless there be drowned mice in it.
He who hunts with cats will catch mice.
The cats that drive away mice are as food as those that catch them.
Monks, mice, rats, vermin, seldom sunder without harming.
He that wills not to feed a cat feeds the mice.
When a cat wants to eat her kittens, she says they look like mice.
Meowing cats catch fewer mice.
Mewing cats catch no mice.
That that comes of a cat will catch mice.
Mice always return to their own little holes.
When a cat wants to eat her kittens, she says they look like mice.
It is better to feed one cat than many mice.
The best-laid schemes of mice and men gang aft agley.
When the cat is not home, the mice dance on the table.
When the cat gets too old, the mice are not afraid any more.
When cat is absent, mice dance.
For our sins God has created three enemies for us: mice in the house, the fox in the mountains, and a priest in our village.
Only the owner can free his home from mice.
A borrowed cat catches no mice.
The cat is a saint when there are no mice about.
When the cat is gone, the mice come out to stretch.
Only the owner can free his home from mice.
Cats that wear gloves catch no mice.
The best laid plans of mice and men often go astray.
Burn not your house to scare away the mice.
If you hunt with cats you'll catch mice.
When the cat's away the mice will play.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
You catch the mice with bacon.
Who will not feed the cats, must feed the mice and rats.
When the cat's away the mice play.
When the cat's away the mice will play.
No larder but hath his mice.
I would I had as meikle pepper as he counts himself worthy Mice dirt.
A coddled cat doesn't catch mice.
A meowing cat catches no mice.
When the cat sleeps, the mice play.
When the cat's away, it is jubilee with the mice.
A cat that meweth much catcheth but few mice.
The mice will never play with the kittens.
The mice have taken themselves off.
When a cat goes out for a walk, the mice throw a party.
What would a young cat do but eat mice.
When the cat's away, the mice will play.
He who denies the cat bread has his clothes eaten by mice.
The best laid plans of mice and men often go awry.
If a falcon hunts mice he is worthless.
The youngest kitten already chases mice.
Mice play around, when they don't smell the cat.
When the cat's away the mice will play.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
Old cats love young mice.
Without a cat, mice feel free.
If a cat wants to eat her kittens, she'll say that they look like mice.
In your neighbors' soup there is always one fatty morsel.
A morsel eaten gains no friend.
Let him eat the tough morsel who eat the tender.
One good morsel and a hundred vexations.
In eating 'tis good to begin, one morsel helps the other in.
It is a hard morsel that chokes.
There is no flavour in a swallowed morsel.
If you have eaten the morsel on Wednesday, do not look for it on Thursday.
A morsel eaten selfishly does not gain a friend.
It is impossible to add much weight with a single morsel; it is hard to travel afar with a single step.
Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip.
Meat has no choice morsel.
‘Twixt the spoon and the lip, the morsel may slip.
Who is righteous overmuch is a morsel for the Old One.
A restive morsel needs a spur of wine.
There is no choicer morsel than that which is stolen.
Meat has no choice morsel.
Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip.
Mony sma's mak a great.
There is mony a true tale tald in a jest.
Twa fools in a house are a couple o'er mony.
He that winna thole maun flit mony a hole.
There is mony a true tale tauld in jest.
Wealth, like want, ruins mony.
Mony a ane's gear has hastened his hinder end.
Mony aunts, mony emes, mony kin, but few friends.
Mony words, muckle drouth.
No matter how beautiful and well crafted a coffin might look, it will not make anyone wish for death.
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
Be careful what you wish for, you might just get it.
Epigrams might succeed where epics fail.
There is no flower that lasts ten days and no might lasts ten years.
Do it today! tomorrow it might be forbidden.
Might is right.
What might not happen in a year might happen in an instant.
Although the monkey might dress in silk, monkey it still is.
The dog's bark is not might but fright.
When you are crossing over a river you might be eaten by crocodiles, but don't let yourself get bitten by the little fish.
A beautiful person might not have a beautiful life.
One who walks with no reason is not like one who sits without reason, the one who walks might pick up something.
A traveller does not make a mess where he had made a camp as he might one day come back.
If you ask for directions rudely, you might end up a long distance from your destination.
No matter how long and winding the road might be, it will always lead you to your destination.
If it were not for eating, the back might wear gold.
A handful of might is better than a sack full of right.
Your friend's enemy might be your best friend.
Who bows to might loses his right.
If you dig a grave for others, you might fall into it yourself.
Better one good thing that is, rather than two good things that were, or three good things that might never come to pass.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
After the ship has sunk, everyone knows how she might have been saved.
Better to have a handful of might than a sack of justice.
A bear that dances in your neighbor's house might soon dance in yours.
Sometimes the rain might force a man more than once to seek shelter under the same tree.
Wrapped within rags might be gold.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
The night might be long, but whether you want it or not, the day will announce itself.
Nothing so bad but it might have been worse.
You know what to say, but you do not know what you might be told.
Be careful what you wish for you might get it.
The dog's bark is not might, but fright.
You might as well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
We're fools whether we dance or not, so we might as well dance.
Never boast -- you might meet someone who knew you as a child.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
He that has no money might as well be buried in a rice tub with his mouth sewn up.
As long as you happen to put your hand in a container full of pickles, might as well dip your whole arm in the container.
You should know what's being cooked in the kitchen otherwise you might eat a forbidden food.
No matter how kind a man might be he cannot accept to share his wife.
When a woman is hungry, she says, Roast something for the children that they might eat.
Never mock a fowl with raffled feathers it might have won a fight.
Never let a friend lie in your sheep farm he might get hungry.
No matter how tall a tree might grow it will always shed its leaves on the ground.
A fool might be counted wise if he kept his mouth shut.
You might as well die with the chills as with the fever.
There is an hour wherein a man might be happy all his life, could he find it.
Pigs might fly lest they had wings.
Might and courage require wit in their suite.
Where might is the master, justice is the servant.
I might have lost my ring, but I still have my fingers.
If young men had wit and old men strength everything might be well done.
If you dig a pit for others, you might fall into it yourself.
If I tell you my dream, you might forget it. If I act on my dream, perhaps you will remember it, but if I involve you, it becomes your dream too.
Nothing so good but it might have been better.
With the help of an "if' you might put Paris into a bottle.
Might overcomes right.
Might knows no right.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
Might is right. (14th century)
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
He that flees and runs away might live to see another day.
Might is always right.
Get what to lend out and at the same time how to demand it back, for payment might be a tussle.
When your wife is a woman of no morals, then she might as well be someone else's harlot.
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. - English, 17th century.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
Might goes before right.
Might have gone further and have fared worse.
Many a fool might pass for a wise man if he would only keep his mouth shut.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
For a young man contemplating marriage: That you might have nicer legs than your own under your table before the new spuds are up.
One pound of learning might have required many thousand persons of common sense to acquire it.
Night was created so that we might consider what we did during the day.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
Might is right.
It is little of God's might, to make a poor man a Knight.
"Who is silent is seen to agree, when he ought to and might have spoken.”.
Better a mistake at the beginning than at the end.
The fool's excuse is bigger than the mistake he made.
See and believe, and in order not to make a mistake, touch.
If a rich man steals it is a mistake; if a poor man makes a mistake he has stolen.
Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional.
The start of a journey should never be mistaken for success.
A mistake is no fraud.
He who is an ass and takes himself to be a stag finds his mistake when he comes to leap the ditch.
A mule that thinks he is a stag discovers his mistake when he comes to leap over the ditch.
No matter how smart a person is, eventually he will make a mistake.
The thief makes perhaps one mistake; those he stole from made a hundred.
The one who is mistaken is the one who does nothing.
The buttocks never mistake the ground.
The first mistake are theirs who commit them, the second are theirs that permit them.
Never mistake chicken shit for an egg.
It is better to be ignorant than mistaken.
You never are so easily mistaken as when you think you know the way.
When a king makes a mistake, all the people suffer.
In a group of many words, there is bound to be a mistake somewhere in them.
A man who has committed a mistake and doesn't correct it is committing another mistake.
The ancestors may annoy you but don't make a mistake of annoying them back, they may annoy you forever.
If you have a poor father that is destiny; if you have a poor father-in-law, that is your mistake.
A little doubt saves many a mistake.
A known mistake is better than an unknown truth.
The mistake of the scientist leads to mistakes by many people.
Do not mistake a goats beard for a fine stallion's tail.
The man who never makes a mistake always takes orders from one who does.
The spirit that keeps one going when one has no choice of what else to do must not be mistaken for valor.
Listen to the old and you won't be mistaken.
God save us from a mistaken summons and poorly informed justice.
The old horse will not mistake the road.
Laziness is often mistaken for patience.
The patient who names a doctor his heir makes a big mistake.
War gives no opportunity for repeating a mistake.
A mistake proves that at least someone stopped talking long enough to do something.
Making a thousand decisions, even the wise will make a mistake.
Only those who do nothing never make a mistake.
A little doubt saves many a mistake.
Opposition to everyone is a mistaken act.
Any man can make a mistake; only a fool keeps making the same one.
A wretched year has twenty-four months.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years; the slave of a woman dies in six months.
Even when months and days are long, life is short.
It takes nine months to have a baby, no matter how many people you put on the job.
If you would be rich in a year, you may be hanged in six months.
A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
13 festivals in 12 months.
A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table.
In a good word there are three winters' warmth; in one malicious word there is pain for six frosty months.
Don't sleep on the ground during those months that are spelled with an r.
The new moon of March rules for six months.
After nine months the secret comes out.
He who wants to be rich in a year is hanged at six months' end.
In New England we have nine months of winter and three months of darned poor sledding.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
Even a monk can't shave his own head.
Not everyone who has a cowl on is a monk.
The monk gets married to please his friend.
He that cannot do better, must be a monk.
A monk in his cloister, a fish in the water, a thief in the gallows.
Offend one monk, and the lappets of all cowls will flutter as far as Rome.
You monk, do you want us to give you in marriage?
The habit doesn't make the monk.
A vagabond monk never spoke well of his convent.
Capacious as the sleeve of a monk and patient as the priest with his arms across his chest.
The monk preached against stealing, and had the good in his larder.
"bad company,” said the thief, as he went to the gallows between the hangman and a monk.
It is easy to become a monk in one's old age.
One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor between them.
One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor among them. When it comes to three, they have to go thirsty.
The cowl does not make the monk.
At length the fox turns monk.
In good companionship, the monk took a wife.
The peasant is like the monk in many ways.
The gluttony of the monk and the appetite of the priest.
The monk feasts and the convent pays.
A runaway monk never speaks well of his convent.
The monk responds as the abbot chants.
Take heed of an ox before, an ass behind, and a monk on all sides.
When the Devil was sick the Devil a monk would be, When the Devil got well, the devil a monk was he.
If the devil is going to disguise himself, it will be as a monk or a lawyer.
The cowl does not make the monk.
It is easy to become a monk in one's old age.
Wo ät Hätz van vol es, doh lööf d'r Monk van övver.
The cowl does not make the monk.
The abbey does not fail for want on one monk.
Milk and honey have different colours, but they share the same house peacefully.
When you drink milk under the palm tree, people will say that it is palm wine.
Water and milk do not mix.
Once burned by milk you will blow on cold water.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
I own a cow in heaven, but I cannot drink her milk.
It is easier to milk a cow that stands still.
A soft dropping April brings milk to cows and sheep.
God gives the milk, but not the pail.
Better to drink the milk than to eat the cow.
No matter how hard you try, a bull will never give milk.
The cheese betrays the milk.
Even in the freshest of milk, you will still find hairs.
They have taken the cow by the horns in order to milk it better.
Strength is like milk - it is inexhaustible.
Milk belongs to the cow, but the bull cow gets the publicity.
Because of a drop of blue dye,a whole pot of milk is contaminated.
A mother won't give milk to her child until he cries.
No matter how much milk a cow has, you cannot milk butter from it.
It's no use crying over spilt milk.
A pot of milk is ruined by a drop of poison.
The watch-dog does not get sweet milk unless there be drowned mice in it.
The cow gives milk through her mouth.
Good wine is milk for the aged.
It is too much to expect of a cat that she should sit by the milk and not lap it.
Black cows give white milk.
Of what use is it that the cow gives plenty of milk, if she upset the pail.
Milk the cow, but do not pull off the udder.
A noisy cow gives little milk.
Even if fed milk, a snake will still emit poison.
Wine is old men's milk.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
Milk for a child, meat for a man, beer for the old.
Mi come here fi drink milk, mi noh come here fi count cow.
Man hab cow him look fi milk.
Better a goat that can give milk than a cow that cannot.
Before you milk a cow tie it up.
Milk the cow, but don't pull off the udder.
A child of a year old sucks milk from the heel.
Our neighbour's crop is always more fruitful and his cattle produce more milk than our own.
Ain't no use askin' the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
You cannot swallow hot milk, nor can you throw it away.
To search for thorns in the milk.
The hurrying fly falls into the milk.
A black cow also gives white milk.
Do not try to cook the goat's young in the goat's milk.
The cow drinks water and it turns to milk; the snake drinks water and it turns to poison.
Have patience, the grass will be milk soon enough.
You stored your milk in a straining metal... And now you are complaining about bad luck?
Generosity is white and pure like milk.
He who has got experience can milk a running cow.
There's no use asking the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
Don't buy a cow to get a glass of milk.
Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?
Why pay for the cow when the milk is free?
If you are offered a bull, do not ask how much milk he will give.
The man who wanted to milk the male goat failed.
Even ill-natured cows give milk.
He goes about it like a cat round hot milk.
God gives us milk but no jug.
Any man who owns a cow can always find a woman to milk her.
In winter the milk goes to the cow's horns.
When they came to milk the cow she said "I am an ox", and when they came to harness her she said "I am a cow".
It will soon show which milk will yield a good curd.
He whose mouth was once burned by hot mush, blows even at sour milk.
The cow gives a good pail of milk and then kicks it over.
Don't weep over spilled milk.
Give a servant a proper meal and the cow will give more milk and the cat will drink less.
For the very best, drink milk from the goat, ricotta from the sheep and cheese from the cow.
To the fiancT -- milk; to the bride -- butter; to the husband -- cheese.
To the fianct - milk; to the bride - butter; to the husband - cheese.
It is he who got milk that is merciful.
The only friendly cow is the one which gives milk.
The hurrying mouse falls into the milk.
Whomever needs milk, bows to the animal.
When a fool has the cow by the horns, the wise man can milk it.
The cow gives good milk, but kicks over the pail.
A cow from afar gives plenty of milk.
Why buy a cow if you can get the milk for free.
Why buy a cow when milk is so cheap?
You don't milk a cow with your hands in your pockets.
In a rickety stable the cow produces no milk.
The one who burns his mouth for drinking milk too hot, eats even yogurt carefully.
Who burned himself with hot milk blows on ice cream.
It's not worth crying over spilt milk.
My neighbour's goat gives more milk than mine.
Don't cry over the spilled milk.
With violets and goats' milk anoint your face, and every king's son in the world will be after you.
A pestle upon a peg, and a mortar upon a clothes line.
The skill of using a mortar and pestle never leaves one.
The wind that carried the mortar will not fail to carry the pestle.
No pestle can be bigger than its mortar.
Sweat makes good mortar.
The mortar always smells of garlic.
He who builds on another's ground loses his stone and mortar.
Who pounds the water in the mortar, will get wet with the drops and will end up tired.
To pound water with a mortar is futile.
A contented mind is a continual feast.
Do not say the first thing that comes to your mind.
Out of sight, out of mind.
The eyes are of little use if the mind be blind.
A sound mind in a sound body.
Never mind storms and snows for the sake of a friend.
Youth does not mind where it sets its foot.
Never ask a fox to mind the hens.
Age brings experience, and a good mind wisdom.
Let every man mind his own business, and leave others to theirs.
The eyes do not see what the mind does not want.
Travel broadens the mind.
If the inner mind is not deluded, the outer actions will not be wrong.
If your inner mind isn't deceived, your outer actions won't be wrong..
Man's mind changes throughout the course of a day.
Lenin's science strengthens the mind and the hands.
Changing one's mind is more often a sign of prudence than of ignorance.
Out of sight, out of mind.
An idle mind is the devil's playground.
Just as a bamboo cane forms a round jet of water, so taking counsel together makes men of one mind.
The world of humans is divided by lines, but the mind knows no limits, the heart no barriers.
It is the mind that wins or loses.
A mind can make a heaven out of hell, or a hell out of heaven.
Anger of the mind is poison to the soul.
A fly does not mind dying in coconut cream.
He who fixes his mind much on water ends up not drinkink it.
I have no sword; I make no mind my sword.
The sickness of the body is the cure of the mind.
God conceals himself from the mind of man, but reveals himself to his heart.
A beggar won't mind being insulted.
At that particular time a mad person gives you something take it immediately before he changes is mind.
Chance favors the prepared mind.
All happiness is in the mind.
A woman has the form of an angel, the heart of a serpent, and the mind of an ass.
'tis the mind ennobles, not the blood.
You'll never plough a field by turning it over in your mind.
Putting the fox to mind the geese.
The man with the boots does not mind where he places his foot.
Let not the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.
He who has a mind to beat a dog will easily find a stick.
If mind is clean, fate is good.
See with your mind, hear with your heart.
It is one word of advice that one needs to give to a wise man, and that word keeps multiplying in his mind.
The older the man, the weaker his mind.
Pleasures steal away the mind.
An icon for the mind is like raw vodka for the stomach.
Who drinks till bottom, lives without mind.
Trust in God, but mind your own business.
A wise man changes his mind, a fool never will.
He who knows not how to employ his leisure hath more cares on his mind than the most busy of busily-engaged men.
To relax the mind is to lose it.
As the wound inflames the finger, so the thought inflames the mind.
He who would catch fish must not mind wetting himself.
Lions believe that everyone shares their state of mind.
Don't be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts.
Never be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts.
The mind is like a bag; everyone has one.
Clean your heart and mind of negative thoughts.
Roots do not know what a leaf has in mind.
The mind is free and the slightest thought has great influence. It is therefore important that you think enlightened thoughts.
Many a sweet maid when one knows her mind is fickle found towards men.
Care shall gnaw thy heart if thou canst not tell all thy mind to another.
Let no man glory in the greatness of his mind, but rather keep watch o'er his wits.
When a man say him do not mind, then mind him .
Young people talk of what they are doing; old people of what they have done; and fools of what they have a mind to do.
Whatever you teach, be brief; what is quickly said the mind readily receives and faithfully retains, while everything superfluous runs over as from a full container. Who knows much says least.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Money spent on the mind is never spent in vain.
Be master of mind rather than mastered by mind.
A person will change his mind on something if left to sleep over it.
Train equally the mind and body.
When you buy, use your eyes and your mind, not your ears.
There is nothing so evil as the mind of a virtuous woman.
I have no friends; I make my mind my friend.
A bath refreshes the body, tea refreshes the mind.
An image of a bamboo has already been formed in mind before it is committed to the painting canvas.
Books speak to the mind, friends to the heart, heaven to the soul, all else to the ears.
The mind is the emperor of the body.
Reticence builds a fortress in the mind.
Any book you open will benefit your mind.
A vacant mind is open to all suggestions, as a hollow mountain returns all sounds.
If you wish to know the mind of a man, listen to his words.
Your mind is like a parachute; it only works when it's open.
A needle cannot hold two threads or a mind two thoughts.
An open mind only hurts those who fear their own mistakes.
A dog does not mind being called a dog.
The mind of a fool is like a broken pot it will hold no wisdom.
Roots do not know what a leaf has in mind.
A rolling stone gathers no moss, but it gets a great shine.
Once dead the good and the bad are covered by the same moss.
A millstone gathers no moss.
A stone that gathers no moss will be washed away by the river.
Moss grows on a lying stone.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
The oft-moved stone gathers no moss.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A stone moved often gathers no moss.
May your reign
Continue for a thousand, eight thousand generations,
Until the pebbles
Grow into boulders
Lush with moss.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Do not be like the mosquito that bites the owner of the house.
When mosquitoes work, they bite and then they sing.
In heaven you wont hear the mosquitoes.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
Just because you are irritated by a mosquito, you burn the mosquito curtain.
Don't respond to a mosquito bit with a stone because you you will miss it and hunt yourself.
If you think you're too small to be noticed go and sleep in a room which is full of mosquitoes.
The Mosquito weighs 99 kilos on his own scale.
There's a man who looks like a partridge with legs like a mosquito.
Using a cannon to shoot a mosquito.
If you befriend a mosquito it will still attack you at night.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
A mosquito can make the lion's eye bleed.
He makes an elephant out of a mosquito.
To one who understands, a mosquito is a lute, to one who does not understand, a drum and zurna are little.
A mosquito is noticed in the eyes of another, but not an elephant in the eyes of ones own self.
The misfortune that comes into town does not wear a turban.
Blessed is the misfortune that comes alone.
Misfortune teaches us to pray.
Misfortune does not restrict his visits to one day.
Every misfortune is a blessing.
It is a great art to laugh at your own misfortune.
Who has, let him thereof take heed; love wanes, misfortune comes with speed.
Misfortune, wood, and hair, grow throughout the year.
Security is the first cause of misfortune.
Good luck comes in slender currents, misfortune in a rolling tides.
He who cannot bear misfortune is truly unfortunate.
One misfortune brings on another.
The misfortune of many is a consolation.
Another's misfortune does not cure my pain.
Whither goes thou, misfortune? to where there is more.
Good watch prevents misfortune.
A misfortune and a friar seldom go alone.
He who is the cause of his own misfortune may bewail it himself.
That which brings misfortune is not big.
A great fortune in the hands of a fool is a great misfortune.
Where misfortune befals injuries follow.
Fortune and misfortune live in the same courtyard.
Misfortune does not visit the weak-hearted.
Whither goest thou, Misfortune? To where there is more.
Better a quiet death than a public misfortune.
There is no greater misfortune, than to not be able to endure misfortune.
One courts misfortune by flaunting wealth.
If you share a man's wealth, try to lessen his misfortune.
Misfortune comes to all men.
Try out your shoes on your feet - gauge people against their misfortune.
One who causes others misfortune also teaches them wisdom.
Misfortune is not that which can be avoided, but that which cannot.
There is no greater misfortune than your own.
You can always find good elements in the misfortune that strikes you.
Misfortune seldom comes alone to the house.
Rats and conquerors must expect no mercy in misfortune.
He who does look before him, must take misfortune for his earnings.
When misfortune comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
Virtue flourishes in misfortune.
Misfortune does not always result in harm.
One misfortune comes on the neck of another.
Stolen things bring in misfortune.
Misfortune of soup made of shanks and feet.
We have far greater compassion for another's misfortune than our pleasure in another's good fortune.
Another's misfortune is only a dream.
The fool hunts for misfortune.
Misfortune upon misfortune is not wholesome.
There is something in the misfortune of our best friends which does not displease us.
There would be no good fortune had misfortune not helped.
Oh, misfortune, I forgive you when you come alone.
Welcome, misfortune, if you come alone.
[I] would have had no luck, if not for misfortune.
Stolen things bring in misfortune.
One misfortune comes on the back of another.
Misfortune sits on a rich man's lap but grabs the throat of the pauper.
Fortune and misfortune are two buckets in the same well.
We're responsible for our own misfortune.
The misfortune of the foolish is a warning to the wise.
Alligator shouldn' call hog long mout.
Prayer from de mout' alone is no prayer.
Man noh done cross riva, noh fi cuss alligator long mout long.
You are a white mout fowl.
Yuh does give yuh mout too much liberty.
Wha mout seh, han' can' do.
What sweetens goat mout does burn e bottom.
Ya mout does run like a duck pouch.
When eye no see, mout' no talk.
Idleness moves so slowly that it will be overtaken by misery.
Poetry moves heaven and earth.
A single prayer moves heaven.
The moon moves slowly, but it crosses the town.
Who moves, picks up, who stands still, dries up.
Nevertheless, it moves.
When a man moves from nature, his heart becomes hard.
When a man moves away from nature his heart becomes hard.
Faith moves mountains.
A person moves up while water runs down.
He who never moves about appreciates only one's mother's cookery skills.
He who moves with each day is better than another who waits for luck.
A clean hand moves freely through the land.
He moves all the stones, to achieve something.
It is he who has no place to call at that moves fast through life.
Dogs bark but the caravan moves on.
When a stepmother moves in, the father becomes a stepfather.
If it moves, salute it; if it doesn't move, pick it up; and if you can't pick it up, paint it.
It's not the towering sail, but the unseen wind that moves the ship.
The Almighty moves mountains but don't forget to bring your shovel.
The only difference between the cucumber and water is the moving of the teeth.
God has said, "start moving so that I may start blessing.”.
Moving water makes stagnant water move.
Don't lean on your fellow men - theirs is an ever moving support.
Only moving forward.
Slow moving lion eats meat.
He who has given up doesn't blame the one moving on.
Man is like a palm on the beach; moving with the wind of life.
When the wind blows the sea is moving.
The chameleon looks in all directions before moving.
Giving advice to the ignorant is like the rain falling on muddy ground.
he makes the water muddy to fish.
The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass.
If you are going to fall it's muddy everywhere.
Water is muddy at the fountainhead.
Muddy water won't do for a mirror.
Muddied water does not reflect.
Muddy springs will have muddy streams.
Even though you tread slowly over your rice field it will become muddy.
The timid ox drinks muddy water.
I would not wipe my muddy boots in him.
There is no muddy water that doesn't clear.
It is good fishing in muddy water.
Friends and mules fail us at hard passes.
When in March sun and water are taking turns with water and sun, the mules end up doing the carrying.
Friends and mules fail in hard trials.
Friends and mules fail us in hard places.
If we are both masters, then who shall lead the mules?
The man who chases mules and believes women will never get to Heaven.
Married people and mules, leave them alone.
He who is a Basque, a good Christian and has two mules, needs nothing more.
Mules help to scratch each other.
A kiss without a moustache is like beef without mustard.
Mustard after the meal.
When you are pepper, I am mustard; when thou art a needle, I am a knife.
Saving mustard seeds in hand, while a watermelon escapes.
After meat, mustard.
After dinner, mustard.
After meat comes mustard.
Saving mustard seeds in hand, while a watermelon escapes.
The four seasons are salt, pepper, mustard and vinegar.
After meat, mustard.
Never rely on the glory of the morning nor the smiles of your mother-in-law.
Mothers-in-law are hard of hearing.
Woe to the high spirited bride whose mother-in-law is still alive.
The mother-in-law shows you her thighs without shame, you are the embarrassed one.
The daughter-in-law wipes away what the mother-in-law has seen.
There is but one good mother-in-law and she is dead.
Daughter-in-law hates mother-in-law.
The grumbling mother-in-law forgets that she once was a bride.
The more the mother-in-law drinks the more friendly is her greeting.
Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, storm and hail.
A mother-in-law may be good, but she is better when mother earth covers her up.
A mother-in-law made of sugar, still tastes bitter.
Every mother-in-law is a piece of the devil's pants.
There is nothing better than a rich wife and a generous mother-in-law.
Even a sugar mother-in-law tastes bitter.
To drunken mothers-in-law give full jugs.
You never meet your mother-in-law on the day that you are welldressed.
Brides and mothers-in-law are like dogs and monkeys.
The mother-in-law does not remember that she was once a daughter-in-law.
She is well married who has neither mother-in-law nor sister-in-law.
The miser is his own mother-in-law.
Mothers-in-law are fine so long as they are deaf and blind.
Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law can be cooked together but they will never be tender.
Well-married is when you have no mother-in-law and no sister-in-law.
The mother-in-law must be entreated, and the pot must be let stand.
The cask full, the mother-in-law drunk.
She is well married who has neither mother-in-law nor sister-in-law.
As long as I was a daughter-in-law I never had a good mother-in-law, and as long as I was a mother-in-law I never had a good daughter-in-law.
A mother-in-law should be blind in one eye and deaf in one ear.
Mothers-in-law are fine so long as they are deaf and blind.
The man from Laihia takes his mother-in-law also to the honeymoon, so the bride would not wear out.
When the man is away, the monkey eats his corn and goes into his hut.
A person who misses a chance and the monkey who misses its branch -- both cannot be saved.
Can the monkey know the taste of ginger?
Copying everybody else all the time, the monkey one day cut his throat.
He who gives a monkey as a present doesn't keep hold of its tail.
Dress the monkey in silk and it is still a monkey.
When the monkey can't reach the ripe banana with his hand, he says it is not sweet.
Although a monkey be dressed in silk, she is still a monkey.
The monkey knows the tree it climbs.
The monkey never complains that he has no comb.
If you marry a monkey for his wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains as is.
A monkey is a gazelle in its mother's eyes.
An old monkey never forgets how to climb trees.
The monkey will never wash with the same water twice.
Little by little, one catches the monkey in the jungle.
Only a monkey understands a monkey.
A stranger does not share the monkey.
A monkey in its mother's eye is like a gazelle.
The monkey does not see his own hind backside; he sees his neighbor's.
By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree.
By trying repeatedly, the monkey learns how to jump from the tree.
A monkey makes fun of the red behinds of his fellow monkeys.
Like a monkey who eats belacaan.
When an elephant becomes as small as a monkey, it ceases to be an elephant.
The higher the monkey goes the more he shows his tail.
An old monkey will not stick his hand into a jar.
Each monkey on its own branch.
These can never be true friends: Hope, dice, a prostitute, a robber, a cheat, a goldsmith, a monkey, a doctor, a distiller.
A monkey never thinks her baby's ugly.
De higher monkey climb de more him expose.
The higher the monkey climbs the more him expose.
An intelligent monkey can still be beaten.
A monkey dressed up is still a monkey.
If he keeps on imitating everybody the monkey will one day cut his own throat.
To do like the monkey, get the chesnuts out of the fire with the cat's paw.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
A monkey remains a monkey, though dressed in silk.
A monkey cannot dare what an elephant can.
A monkey left behind laughs at the others tail.
The riverside monkey is apt to be blamed for every twig found in the river.
As soon as the monkey has climbed a tree, it will start abusing from its elevated position.
The monkey is a thief because it does not work.
De higher de monkey climb, de more he does show he tail.
You can take a monkey out of the bush, but you cant take the bush of a monkey.
The higher the monkey climbs, the more it is exposed to danger.
The monkey knows which branch to swing on.
The head of a monkey, the headdress of a prince.
The monkey says there is nothing better than poverty to unlearn man of his conceit.
Kill the chicken to frighten the monkey.
Kill a chicken before a monkey.
When a monkey doesn't get a banana, he eats chillies.
The monkey is a good boxer, but his hands are short.
The day the monkey is destined to die, all the trees get slippery.
If you cure a monkey of its tooth ache its your maize farm that suffers.
If you don't want a tail of a monkey to touch you then don't attend the monkey dance.
It's not the monkey on top that make a tree fall but it's the work and effort of numerous small insects and ants.
Teaching a monkey to eat with a fork and knife will never make it a man.
If you want to eat a monkey, don't look in its eyes.
The monkey looks into the mirror and sees a gazelle.
The monkey in his mother's eye is a gazelle.
More hideous than a monkey.
A monkey that amuses me is better than a deer astray.
The higher a monkey climbs, the more he shows his behind.
Softly, softly, catchee monkey.
Every monkey will have his gambols.
Everyone knows the monkey, but the monkey knows no one.
The crocodile does not die under the water so that we can call the monkey to celebrate its funeral.
If a monkey is amongst dogs, why won't it start barking?.
You will shed tears with one eye like a monkey.
Even if a monkey wears a golden ring, it is and remains an ugly thing.
The old monkey gets the apple.
Every monkey will have his gambols.
The old monkey is caught last.
Stares like a monkey from the raisintree.
A monkey, even dressed in silk is still a monkey.
A monkey that pilfers from a widow's larder must not be admonished.
The rope that hangs a monkey, hangs a baboon as well.
On the day a monkey dies, all the trees are slippery.
As soon as the monkey has climbed a tree, it will start abusing from its elevated position.
If you marry a monkey for its wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains.
The Rhinoceros never dances with the monkey.
Had the monkey seen its ass, it wouldn't have danced.
To control the mind is like trying to control a drunken monkey that has been bitten by a scorpion.
A monkey is not to be caught in a trap.
If gold falls into the mud, it won't become bronze.
Do not leave your host's house throwing mud in his well.
The elephant that is stuck in the mud will tear down the tree with it.
You can't stop a pig from wallowing in the mud.
The mud that you throw will fall on your own head.
A genuine ruby wont sink and disappear in mud.
The fish, seeing the water has dried up, struggles mightily in the mud.
Underneath every bush you'll find a mud rabbit ready to bolt.
I am a mud hut, I can not stand shocks.
The lotus flower blooms in the mud.
The mud of one country is the medicine of another.
Several repeated visits to the mud pit enable the wasp to build its house.
If you want to smear somebody's face with mud, be prepared to dirty your hands.
A shady lane breeds mud.
He got out of the mud and fell into the river.
Better gain in mud than lose in gold.
Beauty without wisdom is like a flower in the mud.
A pig that is used to wallowing in the mud looks for a clean person to rub against.
Water makes mud, wine cleans the blood.
The sun that melts the wox is the same that hardens the mud.
A flag on a mud barge.
From that dust comes this mud.
A mud hut cannot withstand great shocks.
A buddha made of mud crossing a river cannot protect even himself.
The lotus springs from the mud.
He who stands still in the mud sticks in it.
Who walks in the mud, at some point must clean his feet.
A shady lane breeds mud.
Don't trudge mud into the house of love.
The Sun shines on mud, but does not get muddy.
Better gain in mud than lose in gold.
He stands the mud.
Christmas in mud, Easter in snow.
To have a hut built from mud here is better than a palace made from gold and marble on the Arabian Gulf.
Mud houses don't burn.
He who lies in the mud will rise dirty.
The water carrier does not drink mud.
Caked with mud.
In this world generous people have no money and those with money are not generous.
It is no shame at all to work for money.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
Money grows on the tree of persistence.
Don't go to the pub without money.
Bad money is never lost.
If the man lets a woman know what he has got in his saving box, she will marry him for his money.
Wisdom cannot be bought with money, yet it is worth the most.
Give me money to buy myself a purse to put my money in.
He who has money can eat ice cream in hell.
Anything worth doing is worth doing for money.
A woman prefers a man without money to money without a man.
The rich would have to eat money if the poor did not provide food.
Money talks.
Money buys cherries.
Where rich people can make honest money, poor people have to steal.
Better to lose a little money than a little friendship.
To love the law is to lose money.
Money makes the world go round.
Birds are caught with seed, men with money.
A fool's money is not long in his pocket.
Laws go where money pleases.
When money is not a servant it is a master.
Money hides in the tiger's ear.
Money is the best servant.
He who throws away money with his hands will seek it with his feet.
With money in your pocket, you are wise, and you are handsome, and you sing well too.
You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money.
Save money and money will save you.
When a dog has money, he buys cheese.
Men made money; money never made men.
Fair money can cover much that's foul.
His money takes the place of wisdom.
The art is not in making money, but in keeping it.
Money is a good servant but a had master.
Blow, smith, and you'll get money.
With great learning, a horse, and money, you may travel the world.
When money talks, everyone else is silent.
Money is a good servant, but an evil master.
Making money on manure is better than losing money on musk.
If you marry a monkey for his wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains as is.
Money is sweet balm.
News that's for money today will be for free tomorrow.
Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk.
A lonely old crow, see someone you know, Fly to your right, sure to be right, And if you are hawking, money before night.
Money is like a guest: it comes today, leaves tomorrow.
If you sell a drum in your own village, you get the money and keep the sound.
To the dog who has money, men say: my lord dog.
Abundance of money is a trial for a man.
He who enters Fez with a rug, leaves with a money bag.
You have a lot of friends if you have money; otherwise there are only strangers.
You only hear three voices in this world: the babbling of the stream, jewish law, and money.
My daughter, as long as you keep quiet, much money will paid for your marriage.
Spend words as efficiently as money.
Money matters make strangers.
Money has no ears but it hears; no legs but it walks.
Money has no smell.
The matchmaker always asks for too much money for his eight hundred lies.
The spendthrift beats his money as if it were a carpet.
Wisdom is not like money to be tied up and hidden.
Money is sharper than a sword.
When a blind man is happy he gives money to his child to buy kerosene for his lamp.
Brotherly love for brotherly love, but cheese for money.
Talk is cheap but it takes money to buy whiskey.
Money talks - everything else walks.
Before borrowing money from a friend decide which you need most.
There are three faithful friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
Money makes the mare go.
The skilfullest wanting money is scorned.
Money makes the pot boil.
Money is the root of all evil.
Money spent on brain is never spent in vain.
An abundance of money ruins youth.
'tis money that begets money.
When fools go to market the huckster gets money.
Money taken, freedom forsaken.
If you've money, take a seat; it you've none, take to your feet.
Credit is better than ready money.
God cures the sick, and the doctor gets the money.
Love can do much, money can do all.
Money talks.
Spending your money with many a guest, empties the kitchen, the cellar and chest.
A fool and his money are easily parted.
God often pays debts without money.
Money tempts women, women tempt men.
It is better in times of need to have a friend rather than money.
Better the friend we can see than the money we cannot.
God heals, and the doctor gets the money.
When the music changes, so does the dance.
Good music goes with good food.
Hope is grief's best music.
If we pay for the music we will take part in the dance.
Poor is the church without music.
Love begins with song and music and ends in a sea of tears.
Those who can't dance say the music is no good.
To heaven for the music but to hell for a good conversation.
Move your neck according to the music.
When the music stops, a deaf person continues to dance.
Music helps not the toothache.
When the music changes, then the rhythm of the dance must change also.
A single tree makes no forest; one string makes no music.
Heavenly music is interpreted differently by everyone.
The hottest music and dance always comes from home.
You cannot dance without music though you can sing instrumentally without dancing.
Music speaks louder than words.
Music and women should not be dated.
Who hears music feels his solitude.
What! No star, and you are going out to sea? Marching, and you have no music? Traveling, and you have no book? What! No love, and you are going out to live?
If we pay for the music we will join in the dance.
It is the tone that makes the music.
Even the fear of death is dispelled by music.
Music is the handmaid of divinity.
Music induces more madness in many than wine.
The sow has been greeted with music.
Music has charms to soothe the savage beast.
Music is made of sorrows.
Where there's music there can be love.
The Royal Anthem of Jordan is known as "as-Salam al-Malakī al-Urduni” (Music Video)
As is the music, thus will be the dance.
Where there's music there can be love.
Silence is music to a wise man.
They asked the mule who his father was.
A mule laden with gold is welcome at every castle.
Whip the saddle and give the mule something to think about it.
The father may well be a horse, but it's most likely that the son will be a mule.
He who is born a mule can never be a horse.
The mule wasn't born wild, the stick made her that way.
A mule driver is not aware of the stink of his animals.
A mule can go to mecca, but it will not come back as a pilgrim.
There are three creatures beyond ruling – a mule, a pig and a woman.
A mule that thinks he is a stag discovers his mistake when he comes to leap over the ditch.
You cannot make the mule drink when he is not thirsty.
With a mule you have a son, with a son-in-law you only have a mule.
If the mule isn't kicking, it's biting.
When you see that it's going astray, take the mule by the reins.
An old mule with a golden bridle.
It is better to ride for half a year on a good horse than to spend your entire life riding on a mule.
He who rides the mule shoes her.
A mule and a woman do what is expected of them.
You can make a mule cross the river but you cant make him drink the water.
Cutting the ears of a mule will not make him a horse.
A mule who goes in search of a fine set of antlers, will come back with his ears cut off.
When the judge's mule dies, everyone goes to the funeral; when the judge himself dies, no one does.
The mule was asked: "who is your father?” it responded with: "the horse is my uncle.”.
A good mule can be sold in his own territory.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod, and the horse with a whip and spurs.
With two bits worth of a donkey you can earn more than with a mule.
A gilt bridle for an old mule.
The mule long keeps a kick in reserve for its master.
Who does not venture gets neither horse nor mule, and who ventures too much lose horse and mule.
He who wants a mule without fault must walk on foot.
The bachelor is a peacock, the fiancT is a lion and the married man a mule.
The mule was asked: The mule was asked: "Who is your father?" It responded with: "The horse is my uncle."
He who wants a mule without a fault, must walk on foot.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod.
If the mule doesn't go to the burden, then the burden will come to the mule.
New trappings to an old mule.
Sickness accompanies a waning moon; a new moon cures disease.
When the moon is not full, the stars shine more brightly.
Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond.
The moon grows darker as it gets nearer to the sun.
The bull that is used to the sun shivers by the light of the moon.
The thief hates the moon.
A rabbit aims for the moon.
If you love, love the moon; if you steal, steal a camel.
If a man looks upon your wife pluck out his eye and cook it in a goodly stew. If he eats the stew his manhood will wither and fall off in the next moon.
If you do not agree with the phases of the moon, get a ladder and repair it.
The moon and the stars are not above us, the earth is on the other side of our feet.
If the full moon loves you, why worry about the stars?
When you show the moon to a child, it sees only your finger.
Clouds over the moon, a storm over blossoms.
The moon moves slowly, but it crosses the town.
When the moon is shining the cripple becomes hungry for a walk.
The new moon cannot come until the other has gone.
Despite the beauty of the moon, sun and stars, the sky also has a threatening thunder and striking lightening.
Give some people everything you have and they still want the moon.
The man in the moon stole the wood.
What does the moon care if the dogs bay at her?
He dotes on his midden and thinks it the moon.
Wolves have howled at the moon for centuries, yet it is still there.
If the sun shines on me I care not for the moon.
The moon does not heed the baying of dogs.
When the sun shines on thee, thou needest not care for the moon.
The moon does not care if the dog barks at it.
The stars shine brightest when the moon is gone.
The bad fortune of zoza: in winter it sees not the sun and in summer it sees not the moon.
When the moon is pale, it will rain; when it's red, it will be windy and when it's clear, it will be serene.
There's nothing fixed under the sky and the moon.
The moon is not shamed by the barking of dogs.
If you have the moon, ignore the stars.
The moon lightens well but leaves certain areas in the dark.
Until the old moon disappears completely, the new moon can not come.
When the moon is full, it begins to wane.
Each day you can admire the moon, the snow and the flowers.
When a finger is pointing at the moon, the fool looks at the finger.
When a finger points at the moon, the imbecile looks at the finger.
Fish for the moon in the water.
One's shadow grows larger than life when admired by the light of the moon.
The light of a thousand stars doesn't equal the light of the moon.
He who waits for the moon waits for darkness.
If the sun said it had power over the moon then let it come and shine at night.
Like a person, even the moon grows and vanishes in a transitional process.
Until the old moon disappears completely, the new moon can not come.
If the moon is with you, you need not care about the stars.
The blight ness of the moon can only be experienced in total darkness.
Change of fortune hurts a wise man no more that a change of the moon.
Do not buy either the moon or the news, for in the end they will both come out.
more lost then the winter moon.
A small cloud may hide both sun and moon.
Promises are like the full moon, if they are not kept at once they diminish day by day.
The moon is not seen where the sun shines.
Fear may force a man to cast beyond the moon.
The eye of a crow boiled at the new moon brings good luck for the New Year.
However long the moon disappears, someday it must shine again.
It is the same moon that wanes today that will be the full moon tomorrow.
What keeps its leaves, to the waning moon. What loses its leaves, to the new moon.
Prune the vines on the January moon if you want to fill the casks.
The new moon of March rules for six months.
It dies and rises like the moon.
No moon, no man.
God saves the moon from the wolves.
As long as the sun shines one does not ask for the moon.
The moon gives us light but no heat.
Let the sun shine on me, for I care not for the moon.
Doth the moon on high care for the barking of a dog?
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The moon doesn't hear and the day doesn't see.
The moon is the sun of young men.
MHÄ = Moon Härmästä. Lions-klubi Härmät. Otava, 1976, ISBN 951-1-04141-X.
Clear moon, frost soon.
The plum tree, dwindling, contains less of the spring But the garden is wider, and holds more of the moon.
When the moon is shining the cripple becomes hungry for a walk.
What does the moon care if the dogs bark at her?
A small cloud can hide the sun and the moon.
If youhave the moon, ignore the stars.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
Though the wind blows, the mountain does not move.
You can't move faster than your shadow.
Doubt makes the mountain which faith can move.
It is no disgrace to move out of the way of the elephant.
1 day 1 yard. Bagan won't move.
Either do as your neighbors do, or move away.
Three kinds of people die poor: those who divorce, those who incur debts, and those who move around too much.
If you are travelling towards the East, you will inevitably move away from the West.
Look to the past to help us move forward in the future.
Moving water makes stagnant water move.
The water doesn't move.
Passed waters can't move the mills.
Faith can move mountains.
Life is so short we must move very slowly.
Where the hands move, there let the eyes follow.
Forbear a quarrel with a friend to move: anger breeds hatred; concord sweetens love.
If the wind does not blow, the leaves do not move.
Feet that are used to move cannot remain quiet.
When sleeping women wake, mountains move.
Faith will move mountains.
A log can not move save by the help of rollers.
Are you a Jeta, you do not move?.
We must go back and reclaim our past so we can move forward; so we understand why and how we came to be who we are today.
Fight only when you can win; move away when you cannot.
A lizard without one leg cannot move up a tree.
A wind can move the branches of trees but it will never move the head of a man.
In a strange land one should always move near one's kinsmen.
The teeth that cannot move in unison cannot bit a piece of meat.
A man is always on the move.
Don't move an ancient boundary stone or encroach on the fields of the fatherless.
Life is like a boat you move on when you paddle and stay in the same place if not.
All mankind is divided into three classes: those that are immovable, those that are moveable, and those that move.
Deep rivers move with silent majesty, shallow brooks are noisy.
He who can sit upon a stone and feed himself should not move.
If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to.
If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to. [If fair means cannot, foul shall.].
It is the mountains that do not move to help one another; but one man surely comes to the help of another.
Passed waters don't move watermills.
A tree does not move unless there is wind.
Unite to move forward.
Without wind, the ears of the grass do not move.
The stone will not move from its place unless head is put to head.
With talking the cheese ship won't move.
Precepts teach, examples move.
A car without a linch-pin will not move three span.
If it moves, salute it; if it doesn't move, pick it up; and if you can't pick it up, paint it.
Our passions are the winds that propel our vessel. Our reason is the pilot that steers her. Without winds the vessel would not move and without a pilot she would be lost.
If it moves, salute it. If it doesn't move, pick it up. If you can't pick it up, paint it.
We must go back and reclaim our past so we can move forward.
Unite to move forward.
Even a stone turns green if it does not move for a long time.
If the carriage be not greased, it does not move on.
Never rely on the glory of the morning nor the smiles of your mother-in-law.
Morning is wiser than the evening.
For age and want save while you may, no morning sun lasts a whole day.
In a village with too many roosters morning will come late.
You must decide where you are going in the evening, if you intend to leave early in the morning.
Evening promises are like butter: morning comes, and it's all melted.
The darkness of night cannot stop the light of morning.
A postponement till morning A postponement for ever.
You will not dare mistreating the face you see in the morning.
If you see an animal running in the early morning know that it is running away from something more scarily than the due.
If you eat a live toad first thing in the morning, nothing worse will happen all day long.
A joyful evening may follow a sorrowful morning.
Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.
Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning.
Nothing bolder than the miller's shirt, that every morning collars a thief.
The morning has gold in its mouth.
The person who doesn't scatter the morning dew will not comb gray hairs.
I'll go there tonight for evening is speedier than morning.
The morning of the race is not the morning to feed your horse.
She who laughs not in the morning, laughs not at noon.
Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head.
Morning rain and women's tears dry as fast as each other.
If you wake up in the morning and feel no pain, it is to be feared that you died in the night.
Radish is poison in the morning, food at noon and medicine in the evening.
The hen that cackles in the evening lays no eggs in the morning.
The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected.
See a sheaf of corn in the morning and a young woman in the evening.
The world is nonsense: what looks beautiful in the morning looks ugly in the evening.
Who is stupid in the morning will be stupid in the evening.
Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.
The fox that sleeps in the morning has not his tongue feathered.
Take thy thoughts to bed with thee, for the morning is wiser than the evening.
One is wiser in the morning than in the evening.
The morning sun never lasts a day.
Do not leave to morning the business of evening.
A decision made at night may be changed in the morning.
A pipe of kif in the morning gives one more strength than a 100 camels in the courtyard.
A misty morning does not signify a cloudy day.
A good day becomes evident in the morning.
A rosy face in the morning, white bones in the evening.
Last night I made a thousand plans, but this morning I went my old way.
Drinks down your sorrow, but your sorrow returns the morning after.
Choose your lodging before dark and leave before the morning dew.
A man combs his hair every morning -- why not his heart?
A man should not be too happy in the morning.
When you wake up in the morning you see the other person's butt.
A strong person doesn't rush to wake up early morning.
Truth and morning become light with time.
Even when there is no rooster, the morning will still start.
He who wakes up early in the morning receives a bundle of blessings.
That you eat in the morning passes you through the day.
Morning is the start of a day's work.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away in the morning to avoid removing the ash; he will have to deal with it when he comes back.
A joyous evening often leads to a sorrowful morning.
Childhood shows the man as morning shows the day.
For a morning rain leave not your journey.
A drunken night makes a cloudy morning.
Deep draughts, and long morning slumbers, soon make a man poor.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
In the morning of life, work; in the mid day give council; in the evening, pray.
Red sky at night is a shepherds delight, red sky in the morning is a shepherds warning.
A good well-lived today makes every yesterday a dream of a good future, and every morning is a vision of hope.
He who has a good neighbour has a good morning.
The morning is wiser than the evening.
Evening song with drinks: morning song with coughs.
Quhat better is the house that the Daw rises in the morning.
Our elders quote the cock as saying that "it would not be good if one becomes the only person in the world, and that is why they crow every morning to show their number".
The morning rainbow reaches the fountains; the evening rainbow fills the sails.
Red sea: good morning weather. Red mountains: water and wind.
An evening rainbow means good weather in the morning, a rainbow in the morning fills wells and fountains.
When you see a sheep's wool sky you know, if it doesn't rain today, it will rain in the morning.
Who goes out in the morning finds a carlin.
Morning makes the day.
The morning hour has gold in its mouth.
An hour in the morning is worth two at night.
A glaring sunny morning, a woman that talks Latin, and a child reared on wine, never come to a good end.
It is in vain for a man to rise early who has the repute of lying in bed all the morning.
To be like the esquire of Guadalaxara, who knew nothing in the morning of what he said at night.
Gather flowers while the morning sun lasts.
Morning dreams come true.
The morning goes thinking, the day turning head.
Asleep in the morning, awake in the evening will destroy the house.
The foolish man lies awake all night
Thinking of his many problems;
When the morning comes he is worn out
And his trouble is just as it was.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
Like a shadow in the morning, the friendship of the ignoble man is great at first, then gradually decreases and disappears. Like a shadow in the after noon, the friendship of the noble man is small at first, then gradually increases.
The morning is wiser than the evening.
Failure is the mother of success.
A mother understands what a child does not say.
Reperition is a mother of learning.
These youth taught their mother to give birth.
There are many fathers, but only one mother.
If summer had a mother, she would weep at summer's passing.
A bad son gives his mother a bad name.
He who has not traveled thinks that his mother is the best cook in the world.
'my mother is indeed the best baby carrier,' says the baby.
Haste is the mother of imperfection.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Give me, mother, luck at my birth, then throw me if you will on the rubbish heap.
Mother Nature, time and patience are the three best doctors.
It is hard work to be the mother of many pigs.
The young magpie that pulls feathers out of his mother thinks that he is showing gratitude in that way.
One mother achieves more than a hundred teachers.
Even children of the same mother look different.
A mother is gold, a father is a mirror.
Few are like father, no one is like mother.
In the eyes of its mother every turkey is a swan.
When the child falls the mother weeps; when the mother falls the child laughs.
An indulgent mother makes a sluttish daughter.
If the child does not cry, the mother knows not its wants.
If Moscow is the heart of Russia and St. Petersburg is its head, then Kiev is its mother.
A bad mother wishes for good children.
Seven sons of one mother, and each one of a different mind.
Haste is the mother of inaccuracy.
A mother has little love for a son who did not give her pain.
There is no mother like your own mother.
Calling out for mother, only when you stumble.
Karma is the mother and karma is the father.
The man who marries my mother, I call him uncle.
The person who has not traveled widely thinks his or her mother is the best cook.
The mother of the big he-goat has no horns.
Hypocrisy is the mother of peace.
It's easy to say "may allah roast the lion's mother,” when the lion isn't there.
Every beetle is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother.
In the eyes of its mother every beetle is a gazelle.
A mother is always a mother.
Three daughters and a mother are four devils for a father.
After I saw what my mother did, I will never trust a widow.
Find as much love as was given by your father and mother many times.
You can trust your brother, your father, your mother, but never your wife.
Patience is the mother of a beautiful child.
There's only one pretty child in the world, and every mother has it.
Advertising is the mother of trade.
If power can be bought then sell your mother to get it.
The grasshopper which is always near its mother eats the best food.
The goat says: "they bought my mother, not i.”.
A child does not laugh at the ugliness of his mother.
When buying a house, check the beams; when choosing a wife; check the mother.
A mother won't give milk to her child until he cries.
A mother and daughter fought, and fool thought they meant it.
Repetition is the mother of knowledge.
The madman, who throws a stone into a crowded market, forgets that his own mother could be hit by his madness.
If a mother steals with a child stripped in the back what do you expect of the child.
When a mother has twins she must sleep on her back.
A child's hand is not burned by hot yam which is placed into his palm by his mother.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Experience is the father of wisdom and memory the mother.
Children suck the mother when they are young and the father when they are old.
A mother never thinks her baby is ugly.
The husband's mother is the wife's devil.
One kisses the child for the mother's sake, and the mother for the child's sake.
Who takes the child by the hand takes the mother by the heart.
He who would the daughter win, with the mother must begin.
What is marriage, mother? Daughter, it is spinning, bearing children, and weeping.
Marry me forthwith, mother, for my face is growing wrinkled.
The young crow is wiser than its mother.
A mother will understand what her dumb son says.
A beetle is a beauty in the eyes of his mother.
A good mother is worth a hundred teachers.
If you want the daughter, you must kiss the mother.
Summer is the mother of the poor.
Look at the mother, marry the daughter.
A fair day in winter is the mother of a storm.
Look first at the mother and then the daughter.
Your son can be a prince, your daughter will be a mother.
When mother cow is cropping grass, her young one watches her mouth.
Children of the same mother do not always agree.
If a child is not well-behaved, she is not sent by the mother to go alone to the market to buy things for her.
When you curse your stepmother, your mother will be the victim.
Anger is the mother of treachery.
Patience is the mother of all wisdom.
If all else fails, sleep with your mother.
Mother sets aside and the cat eats.
Night is the mother of advice.
A crazy father and mother make sensible children.
What you don't see with your eyes, don't witness with your mouth.
No fly gets into a shut mouth.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth and the mouth of the wise man is in his heart.
Instead of opening your mouth, open your eyes.
Do not look at gift horse's mouth.
The lawyer's pouch is a mouth of Hell.
We have two ears and one mouth that we may listen the more and talk the less.
Do not use words that are too big for your mouth.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
A dog with a bone in his mouth cannot bite you.
The body is killed by the mouth.
Open your mouth before you eat.
Before eating, open your mouth.
When your hand is in the dog's mouth, withdraw it gently.
A kind word never broke anyone's mouth.
A closed mouth–a wise head.
A silent mouth is sweet to hear.
Honey is not for the ass's mouth.
Let your ears hear what your mouth says.
Even a fish wouldn't get into trouble if it kept its mouth shut.
Words in mouth, no load upon head.
Prayer only from the mouth is no prayer.
A little pepper burns a big man's mouth.
There is no ivory in the mouth of a dog.
The mouth prays to Buddha, but the heart is full of evil.
He who keeps his mouth shut, dies without confession.
Big words won't split ones mouth.
Covetousness is never satisfied till its mouth is filled with earth.
I have a mouth which I feed, it must speak what I please.
You can't throw a handkerchief over somebody's mouth.
You cannot sew buttons on your neighbor's mouth.
Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been lent to you.
Words of the mouth are like a stone in a sling.
The closed mouth doesn't catch any flies.
Don't take another mouthful before you have swallowed what is in your mouth.
Be like the mouth and the hand: when the hand is hurt the mouth blows on it, when the mouth is hurt the hand rubs it.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth, the mouth of a wise man is in his heart.
A fly will not get into a closed mouth.
The village gate can be closed, the mouth of the fool, never.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
If you feed the mouth, the eye becomes shy.
The hand suffers at work, but the mouth still must eat.
My fist is in his mouth, his fist is in my eye.
If your mouth were a knife, it would cut off your lips.
A case is not to be decided from one mouth.
The rain can only drown the mud-rabbit if he hasn't the wits to keep his mouth shut.
Mouth is the home of words.
When you play with a lion, do not put your hand in its mouth.
The mouth is the cause of calamity.
The mouth is the door of evil.
The mouth of a man is a terrible opening.
He who burns his mouth on the soup will blow on a cold fish dish.
The eye that is still says more than a chattering mouth.
If heaven above lets fall a plum, open your mouth.
A filthy mouth will not utter decent language.
Honey is bitter for a sore mouth.
Mouth will not be sweet if you say halva.
An old man's mouth produces a bad smell but the words that come out of it are sweet.
The mouth which eats does not talk.
If you want to know how long a man's tongue is, let him use his mouth to lick honey from a plate.
Looking at a king's mouth one would never think he sucked his mother's breast.
A grasshopper that sleeps about will be soon awake in a lizard's mouth.
The mouth of an elderly man is without teeth, but never without words of wisdom.
Unless the broken tooth is thrown out the mouth will continue to chew with caution.
The mouth of fools pours out foolishness.
It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
When asked, "What news from the sea?” The fish replied "I have a lot to say, but my mouth is full of water.”.
What is sweet in the mouth is not always good in the stomach.
Lambs don't runs with the mouth of the sleeping wolf.
Keep not two tongues in one mouth.
When I have money in my purse, I have food in my mouth.
A clean mouth and honest hand, will take a man through any land.
A close mouth and open eyes never did any one harm.
He that would stop everybody's mouth needs plenty of flour.
The cow gives milk through her mouth.
Guard your mouth as well as you guard your chest.
The morning has gold in its mouth.
When wrathful words arise a closed mouth is soothing.
A silent mouth never did any harm.
A wise head keeps a shut mouth.
What is nearest the heart is nearest the mouth.
It's often a man's mouth broke his nose.
A silent mouth is melodious.
A silent mouth is musical.
The silent mouth is golden.
Listen to that which is well said even if it is from the mouth of an enemy.
Either be a mountain or lean on one.
When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height.
The hare was offended with the mountain, but the mountain did not notice.
Without seeing the mountain, do not tuck up your skirt, without seeing the water, do not take off your boots.
Behind every mountain lies a valley.
Low is the mountain, high the expectations.
Doubt makes the mountain which faith can move.
You do not stumble over a mountain, but you do over a stone.
A day-old pigeon cannot fly over a mountain pass.
To every high mountain, there is a higher one.
Even dust amassed will grow into a mountain.
Cherry blossoms in the recesses of a mountain.
The bandits in the mountain are easily subjected, but it is difficult to subject the bandits in my heart.
People working on the slope of a mountain do not look at the buttocks of one another.
There are many paths to the top of the mountain, but the view is always the same.
There is a path to the top of even the highest mountain.
However tall the mountain is, there's a road to the top of it.
A mountain doesn't reach out to mountain, a man is reaching out to a man.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
The pebble comes from the mountain.
Marry a mountain woman and you will marry the mountain.
Marry a mountain girl and you marry the whole mountain.
Two things that go for loss-turf on a mountain and the wisdom of a poor man.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Mountain does not meet mountain, but a face meets another face.
Push the stone to the top of the mountain.
A single hair hides the mountain in the distance.
Who eats a lot will make a mountain.
Chiaramonte, a mountain of gold, every woman is a treasure.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
When you climb the mountain and reach the top, do not forget the branches shrubs that helped your footing.
The sheep on the mountain is higher than the bull on the plain.
A smart person will not climb a mountain; A smart person will go around it.
If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain.
May you be as big as the white mountain.
It is better to look from the mountain than from the dungeon.
A blow to another's purse is like a blow to a mountain of sand.
Quiet water wears down a mountain.
Too many hands will row the boat up a mountain.
The goodness of the father reaches higher than a mountain; that of the mother goes deeper than the ocean.
Duty is heavy as a mountain but
Death is lighter than a feather.
The one who removed the mountain was the one who began carrying away stones.
If you don't scale the mountain, you can't view the plain.
No matter how the wind howls, the mountain will not bow to it.
You must scale the mountain if you want to view the plain.
Two tigers cannot share one mountain (forest).
There are many paths up the mountain, but the view from the top is always the same.
Water does not stick to the mountain, and vengeance does not stick to a big heart.
A mountain of knives and a sea of fire.
A vacant mind is open to all suggestions, as a hollow mountain returns all sounds.
Sit atop the mountain and watch the tigers fight.
Enough shovels of earth -- a mountain. Enough pails of water -- a river.
If you want to remove a mountain start with one stone at a time.
If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain.
Gold lies deep in the mountain, dirt on the highway.
If the mountain will not go to Mohammed, Mohammed will go to mountain.
Behind the mountain are people too.
Wit in a poor mans head, and mosse in a mountain, avails nothing.
In a flat country a hillock thinks itself a mountain.
Beyond the mountain is another mountain.
Listen to the mountain wind, 'til the streams abate.
You find snails on the mountain slope with the dew from the ravines.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks, but a farmer dies of old age.
Mountain won't meet mountain, but man will meet man.
Though you see me with this coat, I have another up the mountain.
The mountain labored and brought forth a mouse.
Duty is weightier than a mountain, while death is lighter than a feather.
English: An organised group lifts a mountain.
When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height.
If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
A mountain doesn't mix with a mountain.
Lure a tiger out of its mountain.
A man is taller than every mountain he climbs.
The mountain has brought forth a mouse.
The mountain is a good mustard.
If the mountain won't come to Mohammed, Mohammed must come to the mountain.
Mountain does not meet mountain but man does meet man.
If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain.
A girl without a mother is like a mountain with no paths.
The way you call into the mountain is the way the echo will sound.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks.
Translation and If the mountain will not come to Mohammed, Mohammed must go to the mountain.
So you tell me there are wolves on the mountain, and foxes in the valley.
When the cat and the mouse agree, the grocer is ruined.
It is better to be the head of a mouse, then the tail of a lion.
The lucky eagle kills a mouse that has eaten salt.
When a mouse makes fun of a cat, there is a hole.
When the mouse laughs at the car, there is a hole nearby.
If you are a mouse don't follow frogs.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant.
The flour tastes bitter to the mouse who has had enough.
When the cat's away the mouse sits on its throne.
As long as the mouse keeps still you can be sure that the cat stays on guard.
Where you see the tail, there is the mouse.
Only the soil knows when a young mouse is ill.
While the mouse in the walls may look from afar at a cat, he does well not to go squeaking about it.
Can a mouse fall in love with a cat?
The mouse in the wall may look at a cat, but he is wise not to squeak about it.
If a girl seems as shy as a mouse, you still have to look out for the tiger within her.
The cat and the mouse can't be neighbors for long..
In the eyes of the mouse the cat is a lion.
The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
Burn not your house to fright the mouse away.
A cat is a lion to mouse.
Don't make a mouse of yourself, or else you will be eaten by cats.
When the cat is out the mouse can dance.
In baiting a mousetrap with cheese, always leave room for the mouse.
The mountains are in labour, and bring forth a mouse.
A mouse will scare a thief.
It is better to hear the nightingale sing than the mouse gnaw.
Better a mouse in the pot than no meat at all.
A mouse in time may bite in two a cable.
In time a mouse will gnaw through a cable.
That mouse will have a tail.
The mouse that only trusts to one poor hole, Can never be a mouse of any soul.
The mouse is silent while laboring, but when the baby is conceived, she cries.
A mouse that wants to die goes to sniff the cat's nose.
It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese.
Little by little the mouse finishes the hide.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: I climb a tree without arms.
You cannot be a mouse and a bat at the same time.
The mouse fell from the ceiling, and the cat cried "Allah!".
Don't take seriously the cat who mourns for a mouse.
Even when a girl is as shy as a mouse, you still have to beware of the tiger within.
A cat keeps its crawls inside until it meets a mouse.
A mouse does not share a bowl with a cat.
When the mouse laughs at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
The cat is a lion to the mouse.
The early bird may catch the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
He who killeth the lion when absent feareth a mouse when present.
It is a bold mouse that nestles in the cat's ear.
When the mouse has had enough the meal is bitter.
When the cat and the mouse agree the farmer doesn't stand a chance.
What is play to the cat is death to the mouse.
It is a bold mouse that makes her nest in the cat's ear.
He who makes a mouse of himself will be eaten by the cats.
No house without a mouse, no barn without corn, no rose without a thorn.
You should never stop the plough to kill a mouse.
It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese.
The thief is frightened even by a mouse.
The mouse does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful.
Better a mouse in the pot than no stew at all.
The lion had need of the mouse.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant. Spreading the news is also multiplying it.
The mountains have brought forth a mouse.
I gave the mouse a hole and she is become my heir.
A blate cat makes a proud mouse.
She is a sairy mouse, that hes but one Hole.
It is a mean mouse that has but ae hole.
A mouse that removes the palm-nut that turns out to be the bait of a trap, would already have known that the palm-nut does not ripen on the ground.
It is a poor mouse that doesn't have more than one hole.
When the mouse is full, the flour tastes bitter.
As poor as a church mouse.
To skin a mouse.
The hurrying mouse falls into the milk.
Two cocks in one house, a cat and a mouse, an old man and young wife, are always in strife.
The mouse that hath but one hold is soon caught.
It is a poor mouse that has but one hole.
When it is God's will to plague a man, a mouse can bite him to death.
A dead mouse feels no cold.
The mouse has but one hole is soon caught.
A muffled cat never caught a mouse.
No fat mouse in a widow's house.
Pour not water on a drowned mouse.
It is better to be a mouse in a cat's mouth than a man in a lawyer's hands.
The mountain labored and brought forth a mouse.
You make an elephant of a mouse.
A mouse will put the finishing stroke to a castle wall.
A mouse relies not solely on one hole.
A mouse may help a lion.
He makes a lion of a mouse.
Every fault that a Sultan pleases can be a quality.
A man possesses beauty in his quality and a woman possesses quality in her beauty.
It's hard to know the quality of a person, or a watermelon.
A cheap thing doesn't lack defect, nor an expensive thing quality.
When a woman cannot have good palm-nuts to give her rich oil, she still has to maintain decency in order to remain one of those that sell good quality oil.
The heart is the most essential human quality.
The bean paste that smells like bean paste is not the best quality.
Faith is that quality which enables us to believe what we know to be at least far out.
Buy good quality and sell at the market price.
He does not show a decent quality even over a good dinner.
Quality goods advertise themselves.
The queen bee has no sting.
Better to be queen for an hour than a countess for life.
A cat can look at de queen.
The queen ant feeds on its own ants.
Earth is the queen of beds.
The cat may look at the queen.
If you have learnt to wait, you may be Queen of Sweden.
The mistress is queen, the wife is the slave.
Earth is the queen of beds.
Money, like a queen, gives rank and beauty.
Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst.
Do not drink poison to quench a thirst.
Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst.
Water after does not quench a fire at hand.
Dirty water will quench fire.
Even foul water will quench fire.
Far waters cannot quench near fires.
Pouring oil on the fire is not the way to quench it.
Foul water will quench fire.
Small wells are better to quench your thirst.
Dirty water will quench fire.
Crooked wood burns quite as well as straight.
Better be one-eyed than quite blind.
The coat is quite new, only the holes are old.
A handsome man is not quite poor.
A human being is quite impatient.
Manhood is quite a struggle, old age a regret.
The man that blushes is not quite a brute.
A man who was always complaining was quite rightly sent to hell.
Herrings are quite small to be served at Christmas dinner.
Do not ask questions of fairy tales.
If you ask questions, you cannot avoid answers.
He who asks questions, cannot avoid the answers.
Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no lies.
Ask questions from your heart and you will be answered from the heart.
If you really want honesty, then don't ask questions you don't really want the answer to.
Asking questions is not silly.
He that nothing questions, nothing learns.
Ask no questions and hear no lies.
One fool may ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
One idiot can ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
Fools ask questions that wise men cannot answer.
The one who asks questions doesn't lose his way.
The real scholar is not afraid to ask questions of his pupil.
No one is without knowledge except he who asks no questions.
The difference between adults and children is that adults don't ask questions.
A fool can ask more questions in a minute than a wise man can answer in an hour.
One fool may ask more questions than seven wise men can answer.
Don't ask questions about fairy tales.
Wise people can't answer the most foolish questions.
Hasty questions require slow answers.
Ask no questions and hear no lies.
Indiscreet questions must be answered with a lie.
No shame in asking questions, even to people of lower status.
Ask questions from your heart and you will be answered from the heart.
He who asks questions, cannot avoid the answers.
In bad things be slow; in good things be quick.
Many hands make quick work.
Quick and well don't agree.
When the river is filled, Be quick to fetch some into your bucket.
Who is quick in youth will be diligent in old age.
Be quick to follow up an advantage.
A good fire makes a quick cook.
The tongue slow and the eyes quick.
Quick to borrow is always slow to pay.
Small evils hatch quick.
One half the troubles in this world can be traced to saying ‘yes' too quick or saying ‘no' not soon enough.
Even an ass will not fall twice in the same quick sand.
The obvious choice is usually a quick regret.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
Dry wood makes a quick fire.
Quick and well seldom go together.
To a quick ear half a word.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
We must live by the quick, not by the dead.
Fear hath a quick ear.
Good-ware make a quick market.
Time is like a dagger; if you don't cut with it, it cuts you. Go ahead and cut. Be quick before it cuts you.
Spending is quick, earning is slow.
No man is quick enough to enjoy life to the full.
Quick to believe is quickly deceived.
Quick enough, if safe enough.
Slow to speak, but quick to act.
Here's to a long life and a merry one. A quick death and an easy one. A pretty girl and an honest one. A cold pint and another one!
A person slow to anger has great understanding; one with a quick temper exalts foolishness.
Good ware makes quick markets.
Quick returns mak rich merchants.
He who eats well speaks well or it is a question of insanity.
To a quick question, give a slow answer.
He who asks a question does not err easily.
An answer without a question signals guilt without question.
The great question is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with failure.
Never has a man more need of his intelligence than when a fool asks him a question.
The only stupid question is the one that is not asked.
To a hasty question a leisurely answer.
He who answers is inferior to the one who asks the question.
The point in question is yet undecided.
It's just a question of putting two and two together.
How to live happily, not luxuriously, is the question.
Sometimes the only thing more dangerous than a question is an answer.
The one who persists in asking question he learn the death of his mother.
A man of honor will feel ashamed by a single question to which he does not know the answer.
There are two sides to every question.
As soon as you question someone's integrity, it is a reflection of your own.
Don't question a blind man for buying a mirror, it must serve him some purpose.
A civil question deserves a civil answer.
Ask a silly question and you get a silly answer.
There are two sides to every question.
Conversation is like making love; the man is the question, the woman the answer, and the union of both will bear fruit.
Love without return is like a question without an answer.
Like question, like answer.
To every answer you can find a new question.
Every question has an answer.
Every answer can result in a new question.
A civil question deserves a civil answer.
Asking question is the only way to learn.
Hear both sides of a question.
If you tell people to live together, you tell them to quarrel.
Teeth will never quarrel with the tongue.
Too much discussion means a quarrel.
Even buddhist priests of the same temple quarrel occasionally.
In a quarrel, the higher voiced person will win.
If two neighbors want to fight, they will find a quarrel in a straw.
The truth is half a quarrel.
If there is only one earring among seven daughters, there will always be a quarrel on festival days.
A bad peace is better than a good quarrel.
It takes two to make a quarrel but only one to end it.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
The quarrel of lovers is the renewal of love.
One cannot quarrel without an opponent.
When neighbours quarrel, lookers-on are more apt to add fuel than water.
They play till they quarrel.
The Sparrows quarrel over somebody else's millet.
To lend is to buy a quarrel.
An old quarrel is easily renewed.
It's not one person's fault if two people quarrel.
Talking of an old debt always starts another quarrel.
Forbear a quarrel with a friend to move: anger breeds hatred; concord sweetens love.
When two quarrel, both are to blame.
With man comes the quarrel.
Beware of french people who pretend to quarrel with each other: they will join together to fight you.
To quarrel with a man of good speech is better than to converse with a man who does not speak well.
Don't take every ill to the doctor, or every quarrel to the lawyer, or every thirst to the tavern.
When brothers quarrel, take a hoe and go and dig; and when they make it up, take a basket and patter the crop.
An answer that does not resolve a quarrel makes a thousand new ones.
The quarrel of the sheep doesn't concern the goats.
If you tell people to live together, you tell them to quarrel.
Never quarrel with one's bread and butter.
A rich wife is a source of quarrel.
A fair exchange brings no quarrel.
When shepherds quarrel, the wolf has a winning game.
A quarrel is like buttermilk: once it's out of the churn, the more you shake it, the more sour it grows.
In a quarrel between a husband and his wife, keep away.
A quarrel between brothers costs soul and life.
Who looks for a quarrel, finds a quarrel.
A quarrel is like an itch; the more you scratch, the more it itches.
When two quarrel both are in the wrong.
If you live in Rome, don't quarrel with the Pope.
He who wishes to live at Rome must not quarrel with the pope.
Bread and salt never quarrel.
There's nothing worse than a person looking for a quarrel.
In a quarrel between a husband and his wife, keep away.
The friend of a quarrel picker is quarrelsome.
Too much discussion leads to a quarrel.
Never quarrel with one's bread and butter.
He loses least in a quarrel who keeps his tongue in cheek.
To quarrel with a man of good speech is better than to converse with a man who does not speak well.
Do not lengthen the quarrel while there is an opportunity of escaping.
My daughter, as long as you keep quiet, much money will paid for your marriage.
Quiet worms will bore a hole in the wall.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
When children stand quiet, they have done some ill.
Quiet people are well able to look after themselves.
A woman like a lamb, a quiet friendly woman.
A quiet tongue shows a wise head.
You must keep quiet or say only things that improve silence.
Don't trouble a quiet snake.
Who stays quiet agrees.
The best physicians are Dr. Diet, Dr. Quiet, and Dr. Merryman.
Your friend has a friend, and your friend's friend has another friend - so know when to keep quiet.
Hens keep quiet when the cock is around.
Who lives in a quiet house has plenty.
Being quiet is agreeing.
If you want to watch, you'd better keep quiet.
Better a quiet death than a public misfortune.
Feet that are used to move cannot remain quiet.
Quiet water wears down a mountain.
There's no quiet child nor young grandmother.
A little with quiet is the only diet.
The heart of the wise man lies quiet like limpid water.
The best doctors are Dr. Diet, Dr, Quiet, and Dr. Merryman.
A talkative person is a traveller when he is tired, he keeps quiet.
Don't underestimate the determination of a quiet person.
Quiet people are like still water their deep.
Quiet people, whether wise or dull, get the benefit of the doubt.
Two things prolong your life: A quiet heart and a loving wife.
Quiet dogs and still water are dangerous.
Women only keep quiet about their age.
The quiet pigs eat all the draff.
It is the quiet pigs that eat the meal.
The world's quiet and the pig is in the sty.
He brought motion in a quiet life.
Let's be quiet, we'll get some fish.
A quiet fool is half a sage.
Quiet streams erode the shore.
Never take for granted a quiet person, for he may have qualities that belie his quiet nature.
Never underestimate a quiet person, for he may have qualities that belie his quiet nature.
Beware of a quiet dog and still water.
Better to keep quiet than to speak poorly (of someone).
The heart of the wise man lies quiet like limpid water.
The world's quiet and the pig is in the sty.
Who keeps quiet, agrees.
Any thing for a quiet life.
Hens keep quiet when the rooster is around.
If there is a character, ugliness becomes beauty; if there is none, beauty becomes ugliness.
A child does not laugh at the ugliness of his mother.
Love conceals ugliness, and hate sees many faults.
So lovers, to their fair one fondly blind, E'en on her ugliness with transport gaze.
Who loves ugliness will not encounter beauty.
Beauty is only skin deep, ugliness goes to the bone.
Beauty never boiled the pot and ugliness never thickened it.
Ugliness with a good character is better than beauty.
Ugliness is the only guardian angel a woman has.
Life is uncertain so eat your desert first.
Unlaid eggs are uncertain chickens.
Better suffer a known evil than change for uncertain good.
To be uncertain is to be uncomfortable, but to be certain is to be ridiculous.
Children are certain sorrow, but uncertain joy.
The issue of all contention is uncertain.
Unlaid eggs are uncertain chickens.
A child is a certain sorrow and uncertain joy.
We lose the certain things, while we seek the uncertain ones.
The man who marries my mother, I call him uncle.
He said, "my uncle is the horse.”.
In times of need a pig is called uncle.
Bob's your uncle.
A priest is a man who is called Father by everyone except his own children who are obliged to call him Uncle.
Elderberries in the yard and an uncle in kiev.
Elder-berry is in the kitchen-garden, therefore your Uncle is in Kiev.
Call the bear "uncle” till you are safe across the bridge.
When the mother dies the father becomes an uncle.
The mule was asked: "who is your father?” it responded with: "the horse is my uncle.”.
If my aunt had a beard, this man would be my uncle.
Call the bear uncle till you are safe across the bridge.
If my aunt had been a man, she'd have been my uncle.
All cannot have the Bishop for uncle.
If the father marries the aunt, he's an uncle.
The mule was asked: The mule was asked: "Who is your father?" It responded with: "The horse is my uncle."
When the mother dies the father becomes an uncle.
He who cannot bear misfortune is truly unfortunate.
The unfortunate would be bitten by toothless dogs.
To persecute the unfortunate is like throwing stones on one fallen into a well.
Unfortunate is the man who has no fingernails to scratch his head with.
The unfortunate know who are their real friends.
If the lady of the house breaks something it is an unfortunate accident; if the servant does, then it is a terrible disaster.
It little avails the unfortunate to be brave.
She is always in the field when luck is on the road (To be said of an unfortunate friend) .
Too much sympathy with the unfortunate makes you unhappy.
Do good and throw it into the sea - if it is not appreciated by an ungrateful man, it will be appreciated by God.
Hell is crowded with ungrateful wretches.
Ingratitude is a kind of weakness; the clever are never ungrateful.
The ungrateful son is a wart on his father's face; to leave it is a blemish, to cut it off is pain.
The ungrateful son is like a wart on his father's face; to leave it there is unsightly, to cut it off is painful.
A grateful dog has more worth than an ungrateful man.
Hell is full of the ungrateful.
To do good to the ungrateful is to throw rose-water into the sea.
The wise man forgets insults as the ungrateful forget benefits.
Using up the arrows, before getting into battle.
In a piranha infested river, monkeys drink water using a straw.
Whoever seeds fava beans without using fertilizer, shouldn't count on having much to eat.
Using a cannon to shoot a mosquito.
It is like using a spoon to get water from the nile.
Using writings to form a community.
The skill of using a mortar and pestle never leaves one.
To pretend to satisfy one's desires with worldly goods is like using straw to put out a fire.
A patient dually determined can fill a pot with water using a fingernail.
Once you've used enough seasoning; using more will spoil the dish.
He wants to learn how to shave using my beard.
Using the old man's cane to hit his own back.
Logic is the cement of our civilization, with which we ascend from chaos, using reason as our guide.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying a grain in a bag with a hole in it.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
The great scholar forgets about fame, the average scholar works for it, and the unworthy scholar steals it.
It's unworthy to dig a new pit to fill up an old one.
They brag most of their ancestors who are unworthy of them.
Unworthy offspring brag the most about their worthy descendants.
Who honours not age, is unworthy of it.
Whoever marries for money will have unworthy children.
He is unworthy of life that causes not life in another.
If you are standing upright, don't worry if your shadow is crooked.
Crawling on hands and knees has never prevented anyone from walking upright.
The winds may fell the massive oak, but bamboo, bent even to the ground, will spring upright after the passage of the storm.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
For the upright there are no laws.
Better to die upright than to live on your knees.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand upright.
He who goes around with his body upright, later on will go crawling.
A full ear of corn will bend its head; an empty ear will stand upright.
An empty sack will not stand upright.
Better to die upright than to live on your knees.
An empty ear holds its head upright.
If one imitates the upright, one becomes upright; if one imitates the crooked, one becomes crooked.
You can't live a long life and remain upright.
God save us from evil neighbors and from the indignation of the upright.
Women have no upright words, but only crooked ones.
Empty sacks will never stand upright.
Crawling on hands and knees has never prevented anyone from walking upright.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
I gave him a staff for his support and he uses it to break my head.
On the ladder to success there is always somebody on the rung above you and who uses your head to steady himself.
When a bird builds its nest it uses the feathers of other birds.
Even criminals have their uses; they keep sleepyheads awake.
An elder uses old eyes to see and so the young use young eyes.
The same teeth that a dog uses to play it uses to bite too.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away in the morning to avoid removing the ash; he will have to deal with it when he comes back.
Sweet are the uses of adversity.
Who has power in his hands has no need to lie; he uses violence.
One man uses his tongue, another his teeth.
A man who uses force is afraid of reasoning.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away.
The fox uses his tale as a witness.
A lazy tailor uses a long thread.
Not even the lord of light can turn back time, or undo what has been done.
With customs we live well, but laws undo us.
What is done cannot be undone.
Don't undo your bootlaces until you have seen the river.
A belt fastened while running will come undone while running.
The knot tied by a wiseman cannot be undone by a fool.
The wound caused by a sword can eventually be healed; the hurt resulted from vicious remarks can never be undone.
It is easier to get a chicken back in the egg than to undo a slander.
A princely mind will undo a private family.
If the young man would and the old man could, there would be nothing undone.
Who serves the mass is thanked by none, but cursed if aught left undone.
Nothing is done while something remains undone.
Tis gold, Which makes the true man killed, and saves the thief; Nay, sometimes hangs both thief and true man; what Can it not do, and undo?
What's done cannot be undone.
The worst you can do to truth is to cloth it in lies, you can't undo it.
What is done cannot be undone.
Do not leave undone what is in your power to do.
Having achieved your purpose, seek not to undo what has been done.
There is no cure for an unknown illness.
The unknown is always great.
It is better to exist unknown to the law.
The unknown is ever imagined.
The predator lands on an unknown tree.
The predator lands on an unknown tree.
On an unknown path every foot is slow.
Wade not in unknown waters.
A known mistake is better than an unknown truth.
Those who wade in unknown waters will be sure to be drowned.
Some people may have reasons unknown to you for doing certain things.
The highway is always shorter than the unknown side roads.
Hope is the last to abandon the unhappy.
A fortune-teller would never be unhappy.
Unhappy, he who has no one.
Who is careless will be unhappy.
A village without elderly is unhappy.
If a man is unhappy, his conduct is the cause.
Who owns too much, remains unhappy.
Who owns too much, remains unhappy.
A divided man makes an unhappy spirit.
No man can be happy without a friend, or be sure of his friend till he is unhappy.
When I married a malicious husband, when I bore a malicious son, an unhappy heart was assigned to me.
Although the number of unhappy days is endless, yet life is better than death.
If a man is unhappy, his conduct is the cause.
Too much sympathy with the unfortunate makes you unhappy.
The well-filled belly has little understanding of the empty.
An understanding person needs only half a word.
From a pound of talk, an ounce of understanding.
If man has no tea in him, he is incapable of understanding truth and beauty.
A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom.
A fool finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions.
Of the good we have an understanding, for fools we keep a stick upstairs.
The best candle is understanding.
He who lacks knowledge derides his neighbor, but the man of understanding holds his tongue.
He who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
Don't be stupid to replace wisdom with knowledge because you will lose understanding.
Having beauty doesn't mean understanding the perseverance of marriage.
The heart has arguments with which the understanding is unacquainted.
Through wisdom is a house built, and by understanding it is established.
Speaking comes by nature, silence by understanding.
He who has no knowledge, understanding of something, should not engage in, or interfere with it.
When god will punish, he will first take away the understanding.
Understanding is something we're sure the other fellow hasn't got.
When god will punish, he will first take away the understanding.
A fool finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions.
In chatter a river, in understanding but a single drop.
Education: that which discloses to the wise and disguises from the foolish their lack of understanding. (Ambrose Bierce)
Man's law changes with his understanding of man. Only the laws of the spirit remain always the same.
A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom.
A good understanding makes good friends.
Sorrow may sadden your face but it sharpens your understanding.
The person who is rich is none the worse for being dull in accomplishments and in understanding, for being stammering in speech, or for having but one foot or one hand.
A person slow to anger has great understanding; one with a quick temper exalts foolishness.
Humor is an important asset: it means understanding and self-criticism. where humor is absent, you'll find small-mindedness.
If God wants people to suffer, he sends them too much understanding.
Who has not understanding, let him have legs.
Better to kiss an ugly woman than to lick yourself.
Wealth can give legs to the cripple, beauty to the ugly, and sympathy to tears.
An ungrateful son is a wart on his father's nose. If he leaves it, it's ugly. If he removes it, it hurts.
Neither handsome enough to kill nor ugly enough to frighten away.
No woman is ugly if she is well dressed.
A beautiful woman belongs to everyone; an ugly one is yours alone.
For the ugly vice of begging, there's the virtue of not giving.
Beautiful from behind, ugly in front.
If you are ugly, be winsome.
Truth often hides in an ugly pool.
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone.
A mother never thinks her baby is ugly.
Uglier than magic.
If one loves the ugly, one shall find it beautiful.
The devil is not so ugly as he is painted.
There never was a shoe however handsome that did not become an ugly slipper.
Better an ugly duckling from your own village than a beauty from foreign parts.
Gloves hide the ugliest hands.
The world is nonsense: what looks beautiful in the morning looks ugly in the evening.
Death said to the man with his throat cut, "How ugly you look."
A monkey never thinks her baby's ugly.
The crow says the ugliest runt is his own.
They took away the mirror from me because I was ugly, and gave it to the blind woman.
Her father's fortune will make the ugliest girl attractive.
An ugly child of your own is more to you than a beautiful one belonging to your neighbor.
Distant hills look beautiful; near ones are ugly.
That which in the beautiful woman is grace, in the ugly woman turns to disgrace.
An ugly girl blames the mirror.
God don't like ugly.
A gilt-edged visiting card often hides an ugly face.
Even ugly faces are worth looking at -- and that is a great comfort for most people.
If you flog a baboon because it is ugly, you will end up killing it.
It's the tortoise's shell, ugly and hard that protects its life long journey on earth.
An ugly woman's husband better be blind.
Having need of makes the ugly beautiful.
Handsome women generally fall to the lot of ugly men.
He devil is not so ugly as he is painted.
It is an ugly bird that defiles its own nest.
In the shallowest waters, the ugliest fish swim.
Who makes baskets, makes some ugly and some beautiful.
Even if a monkey wears a golden ring, it is and remains an ugly thing.
Nobody's sweetheart is ugly.
There never was a looking-glass that told a woman she was ugly.
One night with an ugly woman and one day in the mountains both are like an eternity.
No woman is ugly when she is dressed.
No mirror ever reflected an ugly woman.
She who loves an ugly man thinks him handsome.
Desire beautifies what is ugly.
You are sure to marry a woman either beautiful or ugly; If ugly she will be a punishment; if beautiful, you will share her with others. Therefore do not marry.
You are sure to marry a woman either beautiful or ugly.
If you are ugly, learn how to dance.
An excuse is sometime more ugly than a guilt.
In the calmest waters swim the ugliest fish.
If you want a beautiful woman, hurry to Syracuse: if you want her ugly, run to Terranova, go to Rosolini if you want her lazy and to Spaccaforno if you're looking for one to try.
Never mind ugly buddy I'm not a rose either.
A rich man is never ugly in the eyes of a girl.
There are no beautiful prisons or ugly loved ones.
Neither handsome enough to kill, nor ugly enough to frighten.
Use medicine as well as prayers.
Don't use a lot where a little will do.
They use a wedge to knock out a wedge.
Do not use words that are too big for your mouth.
The eyes are of little use if the mind be blind.
Keep a thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
Others will measure you with the same rod you use to measure them.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll always find a use for it.
There is no use in carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking.
Never use a dwarf to measure the depth of the water.
It is little use to dig a well after the house has caught fire.
When you go to buy, use your eyes, not your ears.
Make the amount of sauce you use correspond to the amount of rice you have.
If you want to travel fast use the old roads.
Bashfulness is of no use to the needy.
Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been lent to you.
It is no use waiting for your ship to come in unless you have sent one out.
Everything wears away from use.
Do use a needle in time, or you might need an axe later.
If you don't have a brain, join the army; if you don't have rice, use beans instead.
Sorrow is like rice in an attic: you use a little every day and at the end it is all gone.
Don't use an axe to do embroidery.
When you go to buy, use your eyes not your ears.
What the Gods make, the planet can find use for.
It is no use fretting after last winter's snow.
Don't use an axe to embroider.
You can use salt to prevent meat from rotting, but what will you use to prevent salt from rotting?
Don't use your teeth when you can untie the knot with your fingers.
The sayings of the wise are like the sharp sticks that shepherds use to guide sheep.
If you want to know how long a man's tongue is, let him use his mouth to lick honey from a plate.
It is an easy matter for a stingy man to get rich -- but what's the use?
Don't use your hairdryer in the shower, you prat.
It is of no use making shoes for geese.
What's of no use is too dear at a gift.
Of what use is it that the cow gives plenty of milk, if she upset the pail.
It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted.
If you have a roving eye, it's no use having the other one fixed on Heaven.
It's no use carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking.
No-one is ever poor who has the sight of his eyes and the use of his feet.
The day will come when the cow will have use for her tail.
God grant me a good sword and no use for it.
There is no use in saying, I will not go such a way, nor drink of such a water.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
You will use in the old what you have learned young.
A man who lives on the bank of a river does not use spittle to wash his hands.
When you are eating with the devil, you must use a long spoon.
We do not use our bare feet to search for hidden thorns which we have seen in day time.
If the owner of a calabash calls it a worthless calabash, others will join him to use it to pack rubbish.
Ask for advice, and then use your brain.
Ask for advice, then use your head.
If you can't use your eyes, follow your nose.
Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been leant to you.
No use crying at the market, sell your fur coat and drink the money.
If you call a piece of wood ‘child', you can never use it to light fire since it has become so precious.
If you want to keep your credit you must use it as little as possible.
If you be a jester, keep your wit till you have use for it.
There is little use building a fence around the garden to keep out the rabbits.
Ain't no use askin' the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
If you don't use the painstik, the child will never celebrate his age of ascension.
What use to cover a mend in the Mona Lisa with a crayon.
A bird will always use another birds' feathers to feather its own nest.
There is no use in wiping your butt before you defecate.
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their honey.
Wealth, if you use it, comes to an end; learning, if you use it, increases.
It is no use cutting a stick when the fight is over.
When you want to test the depths of a stream, don't use both feet.
Don't use oiled paper to wrap up fire.
The less power a man has, the more he likes to use it.
If heaven made him, earth can find some use for him.
Many books do not use up words; many words do not use up thoughts.
When people are no longer afraid of death, there is no use threatening them with it.
An elder uses old eyes to see and so the young use young eyes.
Use people who have something to gain, not people with nothing to lose.
To remove a fly from a friend's forehead never use a hatchet.
To handle yourself use your head to handle others use your heart.
Use it up, make do, or do without.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a dagger.
The only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping stones is the way you use them.
There's no use in closing the barn door after the horse is stolen.
There's no use to pray after the devil has you.
Once a use and ever a custom.
Use soft words and hard arguments.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a sword.
Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the "guilty” list.
Not to use trickery is also trickery.
It is no use hiding from a friend what is known to an enemy.
What's the use of putting honey in an ass's mouth.
Riches abuse them who know not how to use them.
When you drink milk under the palm tree, people will say that it is palm wine.
Under the mountains is silver and gold, But under the night sky, hunger and cold.
There is nothing new under the sun- and that's why there remains such a mess.
You can't claim heaven as your own if you are just going to sit under it.
Don't buy a boat that is under water.
A calf is not found under an ox.
You are not a fully fledged sailor unless you have sailed under full sail, and you have not built a wall unless you have rounded a corner.
If you fall into a pit, Providence is under no obligation to come and look for you.
Under the sackcloth there is something else.
Under a shabby cloak may be a smart drinker.
Under capitalism man exploits man; under socialism the reverse is true.
A dog always bites under the knee.
He who in under cover when it rains is a great fool if he stirs.
If you can't go over, you must go under.
Under a ragged coat lies wisdom.
You can't have two faces under one hat.
Every one is a preacher under the gallows.
Beware, the enemy lies under your blanket.
There's no agreement under pressure.
All who live under the sky are woven together like one big mat.
What is done under the four moons need never be recalled nor regretted.
The space under the bed is like a mat.
As though a bird had flown up from under your feet.
Under his bowl there is a little bowl.
He ran out from under a leaking roof and sat in the rain.
The sun shines on those who are standing before it shines on the people kneeling under them.
Don't hide your light under a bushel.
For every evil under the sun there is a remedy or there is none.
He fled from the rain and sat down under the waterspout.
Under white ashes lie often glowing embers.
There's nothing new under the sun.
Many an honest heart beats under a ragged coat.
The apple falls on the head that's under it.
Under every stone sleeps a scorpion.
Water has leaked under her/his skin.
he tried to pluck under her/his eyebrow, but blinded the eye.
Under white ashes there is glowing coal.
Who makes the wolf his companion should carry a dog under his cloak.
A fool gives full vent to his anger, but a wise man keeps himself under control.
It is good living under the shadow of the belfry.
Nobody knows who is he, even if he is under his father's ears.
Sometimes the rain might force a man more than once to seek shelter under the same tree.
If you sleep under a tree, you can't prevent the leaf from falling on you.
Don't spoil a cool place under the hospitable tree.
Fertile is water that runs under lava.
Often a troll-woman is under fair skin, and virtue under dark hair.
There's nothing fixed under the sky and the moon.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
He has him under his thumb.
Water does not run under a lying stone.
With a piece of bread in your hand you'll find paradise under a pine tree.
May the man be damned and never grow fat, Who wears two faces under one hat.
To place yourself under an obligation is to sell your liberty.
If you're going to rest under the sun, it's better to keep walking.
Before me peaceful, behind me peaceful, under me peaceful, over me peaceful, all around me peaceful.
Admire the person with dirt under his fingernails.
To teach well, we need not say all that we know. Successful teachers are effective in spite of the psychological theories they suffer under.
All criminals turn preachers under the gallows.
Famine hides under the granary.
During a storm you do not take shelter under just one roofing tile.
During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds.
If you don't lift the skirt of a bride you don't know what she wears under it.
Under a powerful general there are no feeble soldiers.
One cannot always find a fish under a willow.
Remove firewood from under a pot.
Ones who are unable to live under the same sky.
Many a good face is under a ragged hat.
Away from home they look at your clothes. At home they look at what is under them.
Truth is like fire it cannot be hidden under dry leaves.
During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds.
The sun will shine on those who stand before its shines and on those who kneel after under them.
The road to success is always under construction.
The insect that eats the leaf is under the leaf.
If you want to sit under a shade in your old age plant a tree now.
A severely under paid hungry teacher in a renovated, well-equipped classroom, can perform just as well as a bird without feathers can do in a hanging, decorated cage.
The darkest place is under the candlestick.
It is good sheltering under an old hedge.
There is nothing new under the sun.
Paradise is under mothers' feet.
Often, under the unseeing hide the cunning.
Where you cannot climb over, you must creep under.
There's many a knave concealed under a surplice.
The best manure is under the farmer's shoe.
He who throws himself under the bench will be left to lie there.
Wolves are often hidden under sheep's clothing.
Every one rakes the fire under his own pot.
What is gotten over the devil's back is spent under his belly.
Who would be rich, must keep his soul under cover of his cash-box.
The earth is not thirsty for the blood of the warriors but for the sweat of man's labor.
The unmarried don't know about labor pains.
Love makes labor light.
He who begins and does not finish loses his labor.
Look for a thing until you find it and you'll not lose your labor.
One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor between them.
One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor among them. When it comes to three, they have to go thirsty.
Sweet is the memory of past labor.
Rise early, and you will observe; labor and you will have.
Smooth hands love the labor of others.
Labor has sure reward.
Those who labor with their minds rule; those who labor with their bodies are ruled.
Honest labor is a form of prayer.
If you persevere, you will reap the fruits of your labor.
Leave the hot fire and help the woman in labor.
Life has given nothing to mortals without great labor. [Nil sine magno vita labore dedit mortalibus.].
Drop by drop would make a lake.
When the lamps in the house are lit it is like the flowering of lotus on the lake.
A man is no more encumbered by his soul than the steed by his bridle or the lake by the swan.
The man is a river, the woman a lake.
Speak highly of the lake, but stay on the bank.
Let me get over the lake, and I will have no fear of the brook.
Fuel is not sold in a forest, nor fish on a lake.
The rich have no heart, the lake never floats a pin.
Living near a lake doesn't mean you eat fish whenever you need.
Drop by drop the lake is drained.
In the lake of lies there are many dead fish.
Drop by drop the lake is formed.
Summer vacation on the ice of a lake.
The lake is not encumbered by the swan, and the body is not encumbered by good sense.
An oil lamp feels proud to give light even though it wears itself away.
A lamp in the street, obscurity at home.
One lamp can't light two houses.
All women are alike when the lamp is out.
When a blind man is happy he gives money to his child to buy kerosene for his lamp.
If you would have the lamp burn, you must pour oil into it.
No lamp burns till morning.
The lamp is not burning for those asleep.
Life is like a lamp flame; it needs a little oil now and then.
A governor may commit arson while the governed are not allowed to light a lamp.
The fuel in the lamp consumes itself but lights others.
When the glow worm lights her lamp, the air is always very damp.
Let my lamp at midnight hour be seen in some high lonely tower.
Light your lamp first at home and afterwards at the mosque.
The foot of a lamp is always the least lit.
A finger's length in a sword, and a palm in a lance, are a great advantage.
A great thrust of a lance at a dead Moor.
An inch in a sword, or a palm in a lance, is a great advantage.
Wit is more often a shield than a lance.
A good cavalier never lacks a lance.
Nobody throws a lance if he has no target.
The tooth laughs with the lance.
The tongue wounds more than a lance.
For whom sword and courage are not enough, corslet and lance will not be enough.
Lang ere ye saddle a foal.
Lang look'd for comes at last.
Better lang little, then soon right nought.
Lang fasting hains nae meat.
Lang leal, lang poor.
Lang straes are nae mots.
There is life in a mussel as lang is it cheeps.
A tocherless dame sits lang at hame.
As lang lives the merry man as the sad.
Better lang something than soon naething.
Some cut lang whangs aff ither folk's leather.
Make ae lang step and down ye gae.
Leave aff as lang as the play's good.
A fool, unless he know Latin, is never a great fool.
A fool who knows Latin is never a real fool.
Wisdom doesn't always speak in greek and latin.
If lies were Latin, there would be many learned men.
Latin hides the stupidity of the priest.
A glaring sunny morning, a woman that talks Latin, and a child reared on wine, never come to a good end.
Whatever is said in Latin sounds profound.
Lies and Latin go round the world.
Cyrillic: Нема ватре без дима. - Latin: Nema vatre bez dima.
A monkey that pilfers from a widow's larder must not be admonished.
Supposing doesn't fill the grain basket; 'if' doesn't fill the larder.
The monk preached against stealing, and had the good in his larder.
No larder but hath his mice.
The summer that yields lots of pumpkins and horse radish doesn't fill the larder.
If your guest becomes a cook, your larder will soon be empty.
The keys at the girdle, the dog in the larder.
A monkey that pilfers from a widow's larder must not be admonished.
May you have kindness in your heart, a plump woman in your furs, and seal meat in you larder.
Wind and fortune are not lasting.
Only when the coffin is closed will we see how long lasting is the name.
First impressions are most lasting.
Truthfulness ensures a lasting relationship.
A single slip may cause lasting injury.
A long lasting visitor grinds the wine.
Gifts make friendship lasting.
A three day long merry-making and regret lasting till death.
Nothing beneath the sun is lasting.
Preparing for the holiday is neither enlightening nor lasting.
The most lasting monuments are doubtless paper-monuments.
Wind and good luck are seldom lasting.
The favour of the great is not lasting.
A fever in autumn is either long lasting or mortal.
Lack of resource has hanged many a person.
The lack of gold only a headache.
We're alive from lack of a shroud.
Rippling water shows lack of depth.
Silence is more than just a lack of words.
Plans fail for lack of counsel but with many advisors, succeed.
The poor lack much, but the greedy lack more.
Where there are experts there will be no lack ot learners.
Because of lack of talent in dancing, the floor is blamed.
A cheap thing doesn't lack defect, nor an expensive thing quality.
Lack of knowledge is darker than night.
There is no need like the lack of a friend.
For lack of men they made my father a justice.
The gun catridge-belt of akowua has never been known to lack bullets.
News don't lack a carrier.
Three things demonstrate a lack of filial piety.
He who has an axe does not lack firewood.
Do not create in anger what you lack in reason.
The worst person doesn't lack some good deeds.
He who says what will I do will never lack what to do.
If you fill your head with pride you will lack space for wisdom.
The greatest poorness is the lack of brains.
Think not on what you lack as much as on what you have.
It is better to leave than to lack.
In vain is the mill-clock if the miller his hearing lack.
Better leave than lack.
Lack of bread forces one to work.
For lack of hens the fox catches crows.
Many do lack, that yet would fain have in their pack.
Love hes no lack.
The old never lack for a story when they're standing in the sun or in front of a warm fireplace.
The mouth that has saliva does not lack words.
Express yourself earnestly, and you have no reason for shame even if you lack talent.
What orators lack in depth, they make up for in length.
Education: that which discloses to the wise and disguises from the foolish their lack of understanding. (Ambrose Bierce)
Gratitude ranks as the least of virtues, and the lack of gratitude is the worst of vices.
Tell me what you brag about and I'll tell you what you lack.
Idle folks lack no excuses.
In the lack of ropes those are kept loose, said the wife of Mäkeläinen about her children.
On a fishing lull, even a crayfish is fish [, at the lack of people even a lazybones is a man].
Who cannot yet walk, cannot climb a ladder.
The world is a ladder, in which some go up and others go down.
As if it weren't bad enough to fall, the ladder lands on top of you.
If a woman hears that something unusual is going on in heaven, she would find a ladder to go and look.
Life is a ladder -- some will climb up it, others down.
If you do not agree with the phases of the moon, get a ladder and repair it.
Kick away the ladder and your feet are left dangling.
The one who has helped others climb the ladder gets kicked in the teeth.
He who climbs a ladder comes down again.
Success is a ladder that cannot be climbed with your hands in your pockets.
He who holds the ladder is as bad as the thief.
On the ladder to success there is always somebody on the rung above you and who uses your head to steady himself.
Before you start up a ladder, count the rungs.
A fool is a wise man's ladder.
She who does not yet know how to walk, cannot climb a ladder.
Death's ladder is there for everyone to climb.
The flatterer makes you climb up a tree then takes the ladder away.
The world is a ladder for some to go up and others down.
He who climbs a ladder, must have his brains in his feet.
He who holds a ladder is as bad as the thief.
When an ass climbs a ladder, we may find wisdom in women.
The world is a ladder for some to go up and some down.
The world is like a ladder: some go up and some go down.
If they say there is a wedding in the sky, women would try to put up a ladder.
Success is a ladder which cannot be climbed with hands in your pocket.
It's not possible to go to sky by a ladder.
A person slips, and a ladder falls on him.
A childless old lady is obsessed with sea shells.
Faint heart ne'er won fair lady.
It is better to be married to an old lady than to remain unmarried.
Ain't over till the fat lady sings.
If you call a lady a slave, she laughs, but if you call a slave a slave, he cries.
When the affected lady is doing well she eats her peas with a pin.
Better lady in a cottage than serving-woman in a castle.
The opera isn't over till the fat lady sings.
A boy is easier cheated than an old lady.
It is easier to make a lady of a peasant-girl than a peasant-girl of a lady.
He who goes to Our Lady of Muxima with an evil heart risks being drowned crossing the river to get there.
Anyone who has sold an old lady, knows the price of an old man.
The opera ain't over until the fat lady sings.
Better is one lady than 4 widows.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
So kind and so honest my lady appears to be.
Amen, said the minister, he hit the old lady in the head with the New Testament.
Wont beguil'd the Lady.
The love of a soldier doesn't last long; when the drum rolls; Good bye, dear lady.
A lady has to be of the right cut and the right measure to make a pretty figure.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
By candle-light a goat looks like a lady.
Even an old lady makes mistakes.
If the lady of the house breaks something it is an unfortunate accident; if the servant does, then it is a terrible disaster.
The first wife is a broom, and the second a lady.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Once a handmaid never a lady.
Old Lady of Threadneedle Street.
I prostrate myself for the sake of Gula, my lady, but in my own eyes I don't have a place to stand.
You a lady, I a lady who is to drive out the sow?
The opera isn't over till the fat lady sings.
A girl never grows into a lady.
You a lady, I a lady who is to drive out the sow?
You may preach ever so long to the wolf, he will nevertheless call for the lamb before night.
A woman like a lamb, a quiet friendly woman.
The Meek lamb sucks from two mothers.
A mild sheep is suck by every lamb.
A young ewe and an old ram, every year bring forth a lamb.
Go to bed with the lamb, and rise with the lark.
Cute lamb sucks two ewes.
You might as well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb.
We all like lamb; each has a different way of cooking it.
It is not the lamb that should go and ask the lion if it has had dinner.
It is when one holds the sacrificial lamb that he begins to seek the gods.
Death to the wolf is life to the lamb.
You should lie down with the lamb and rise with the lark.
You may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
It needs but slight provocation to make the wolf devour the lamb.
Where the wolf gets one lamb he looks for another.
The wolf never wants a pretext against the lamb.
Where the wolf gets one lamb he looks for another.
The lion and the lamb shall lie down together, but the lamb won't get much sleep.
By the first glass a lamb, the second a lion, and the third a pig.
A good kid goat comes from a young goat and a good lamb from a strong sheep.
A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove.
The gentle lamb sucks any ewe as well as its mother; the surly lamb sucks neither its own nor another.
Now that I have an ewe and a lamb, every one says to me: Good morrow, Peter.
The wolf never wants a pretext against the lamb.
A wolf often lies concealed in the skin of a lamb.
The fox loves cunning, the wolf covets the lamb, and a woman longs for praise.
Now I have got a ewe and a lamb, Every one cries, "Welcome, Peter."
Providence tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
Books think for me. (Charles Lamb)
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
To rise with the lark, and go to bed with the lamb.
A lamb takes after its mother.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. - English, 17th century.
May as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
Go to bed with lamb and rise with the lark.
Though you teach a wolf the paternoster, he will say "Lamb! Lamb!"
A lamb when carried far becomes as burdensome as a sheep.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb.
A lamb [sheep] away from the herd will be devoured by wolves.
Laughing wife, crying purse.
Annoy your doctor and sickness comes in laughing.
Time spent laughing is time spent with the kami [gods].
The weeping bride makes a laughing wife.
Men go not laughing to heaven.
The bush fowl saw the chicken being carved up and laughed. The chicken told the bush fowl to stop laughing. For the same hands now carving up the chicken would be used to carve up the bush fowl.
It is the same life whether we spend it crying or laughing.
It is one life, whether we spend it in laughing or in weeping.
A woman that always laughs is everybody's wife; a man that is always laughing is an idiot.
A fool is ever laughing.
Learn weeping and thou shalt gain laughing.
Laughing for no reason is rude.
Beware of laughing hosts and weeping priests.
Play, women, and wine undo men laughing.
Learn weeping, and you shall gain laughing.
A borrowed len should come laughing ahme.
A laughing jackal portends a witch in the rafters.
Who fears laughing will die of fart.
Laughing is not always the proof of a mind at ease.
Learn from your tears and you will win laughing.
Weeping will follow a long delight, fart from laughing long.
When the hare leaps, there are no lame greyhounds.
A lame man always speaks when it's time to run.
A lame crab walks straight.
The lame goat does not take a siesta.
If the stomachache were in the foot, one would go lame.
The lame man laughs at the blind.
The dupe who takes possession of a lame ox is seldom recognized as a fool.
If you always live with those who are lame, you will yourself learn to limp.
When a fox walks lame, the old rabbit jumps.
Don't limp before yuh lame.
You don't need a dog to catch a lame hare.
A lame cat is better than a swift horse when rats infest the palace.
Don't halt before you are lame.
Necessity teaches even the lame to dance.
Patient without any pain, the dog is lame when it wants to.
The lame tongue gets nothing.
When the blind man carries the lame man, both go forward.
When the blind one carries the lame one, both of them gets ahead.
The lame man runs if he has to.
The lame jackass enjoys the journey.
It's useless to tell the lame to run.
Though trouble be lame, it will arrive.
If the first goat goes lame, those that follow will not reach the pasture.
Tomorrow your horse may be lame.
Never limp before the lame.
A lame man won't walk with one who is lamer.
A lame goat will not sleep by day.
He who walks with the lame learns how to limp.
Live near a lame man, and you will soon learn to limp.
Punishment is lame but it comes.
The liar is caught sooner than a lame dog...A hazug embert hamarabb utolérik, mint a sánta kutyát.
Labour warms, sloth harms.
A bad labour, and a daughter after all.
Copper begets copper, and not (the labour of) men's bones.
Labour has a bitter root, but a sweet taste.
Fat is not to be had without labour.
Love knows not labour.
The mountains are in labour, and bring forth a mouse.
Three remedies of the physicians of myddfal: water, honey, and labour.
God sells knowledge for labour, honour for risk.
Reward sweetens labour.
Two hands upon the breast, and labour is past.
The farmer is one but those who eat fruits of his labour are many.
If two brothers fight over their father's land, it is a stranger who will enjoy there sweat and labour.
Knowledge conquered by labour becomes a possession.
There is no disgrace in honest labour.
God sells knowledge for labour -- honour for risk.
Cheerfulness and goodwill make labour light.
Watching women is labour in vain.
sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears.
He that washes an ass's head loses both his lye and his labour.
Rise early and watch, labour and catch.
The gods sell all things for labour.
I have lost my labour and my cost.
Labour conquers all things.
The labour is in itself a pleasure.
We all labour against our own cure, for death is the cure of all diseases. (Sir Thomas Browne)
Labour is light where love pays.
Enjoying the fruits of the labour of others.
Better wise language than well combed hair.
A filthy mouth will not utter decent language.
Perhaps no one has a finer command of a language than he who keeps his mouth shut.
A foreign language is more easily learned in the kitchen than at school.
Arabic is a language, Persian is a delicacy and Turkish is an art.
You must answer the devil in his own language.
As long as a language lives, the people will not perish.
The eyes have one language everywhere.
A nation without a language is a nation without a heart.
In language there is life, in language there is death.
Love has its own language, but marriage falls back on the local dialect.
Living at a river, one comes to know the nature of the fish therein; Dwelling by a mountain, one learns to recognize the language of the birds thereupon.
I have learnt your language so I can damn you.
Man invented language to satisfy is deep need to complain.
A wise person must know the language, sayings, and tales of his society.
Language is not plain.
Open your ears to the ancestors and you will understand the language of spirits.
A language silenced is a people who die.
Words are the leaves of the tree of language, of which, if some fall away, a new succession takes their place.
Spanish is the language of lovers, Italian is for the singer, French for diplomats, and German for horses.
Who could shut up folks' expression and language?
Language has been given to man for hiding thoughts.
We die. That may be the meaning of life. But we do language. That may be the measure of our lives.
Everybody laughs in the same language.
All language is not in books, nor all thoughts in language.
Money speaks sense in a language all nations understand. (Aphra Behn)
There aren't enough swear-words in the English language, so now I'll have to call you perkeleen vittupää just to express my disgust and frustration with this crap.
He utters in his language something different from what he ponders in his mind.
The camel is also large, but it is also brought to its knees and loaded.
Even the dead in their family vaults enjoy being in large company.
A piece of incense may be as large as the knee, but unless burned emits no fragrance.
Too large a morsel chokes the child.
When the alms is too large, even a saint will be suspicious.
Large trees give more shade than fruit.
A day in prison is longer than a thousand years at large.
A large eye does not mean keen vision.
The Drum is large but empty.
They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow.
Eating while seated makes one of large size; eating while standing makes one strong.
The world at large doesn't lead to hell nor does the monastery lead to heaven.
In small woods may be caught large hares.
Large thongs of another man's leather.
A particle of goat dung cannot be eaten by a large gourd.
The eye of God is large.
Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large numbers.
Small print leads to large risk.
In the great river there are large and small fish.
The net of heaven is large and wide, but it lets nothing through.
When a large vessel has opened a way it is easy for a small one to follow.
In the great river there are large and small fish.
If begging should unfortunately be thy lot, knock at the large gates only.
A little stone may upset a large cart.
Many small streams make a large river.
A small fire that warms you, is better than a large one that burns you.
You may cook in small pots aw well as in large ones.
Small profits are often, are better than large profits and seldom.
A small debt makes a man your debtor, a large one your enemy.
It is more becoming to have a large nose than two small ones.
When the poor man is burried, the large bell of the parish is silent.
Men cut large thongs of other men's leather.
Of other mens leather, men take large whangs.
In a large church no priest dies.
Little pitchers have large ears.
A small fire that warms you is better than a large one that burns you.
In large rivers one finds big fish but one may also be drowned.
Of other men's leather large thongs.
From my gossip's bread a large piece for my godson.
A large chair does not make a king.
With many little strokes a large tree is felled.
A puppy must not confront a large animal.
A large fire often comes from a small spark.
Eating while seated makes one of large size.
A bad agreement is better than a good lawsuit.
He who starts a lawsuit makes a hole in the dike.
A lean agreement is better than a fat lawsuit.
A lawsuit is a fruit-tree planted in a lawyer's garden.
A lean compromise is better than a fat lawsuit.
A lawsuit for a maravedi consumes a real's worth of paper.
When there are two in a lawsuit only a third will profit from it.
Win your lawsuit and lose your money.
A bad settlement is better than a good lawsuit.
A meagre compromise is better than a fat lawsuit.
Better a lean agreement than a fat lawsuit.
A henpecked husband gets no support during a lawsuit.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
A long lawsuit breeds poverty.
The lawsuit of a fool keeps the court all day.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
The worst of a lawsuit is that out of one there grow a hundred.
One lawsuit begets another.
Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author.
Care now, be cared for later.
Only believe a woman one day later.
Regrets always come later.
Do use a needle in time, or you might need an axe later.
It is never later than midnight.
He who buys useless things, later sells things that he needs.
You can always buy her back later.
Don't wait for an anthill to build up in your mushroom better attack its origin sooner than later.
The later the evening, the fairer the company.
The later comer is ill lodged.
Who laughs early will cry later.
Sooner or later the truth comes to light.
Think everything carefully before committing yourself because there is no point for regretting it later.
One who refused advice was later seen bleeding.
We all end up in a single bed sooner or later.
He who goes around with his body upright, later on will go crawling.
If you take your tongue to the pawnshop, you can't redeem it later.
Enjoy yourself - it's later than you think.
Economize now or suffer want later.
Sooner or later the day comes when the tumor can be lanced.
It's better fast than later.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
Forgive and regret much later.
To be good tends to give absence later on.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
A marriage in later years sends a letter to the grave digger.
A slap in the face now is better than promised candy later.
If you throw money away with your hands, you will seek it later with your feet.
Your health comes first; you can always hang yourself later.
What is delayed may happen later.
Your health comes first; you can always hang yourself later.
What you save is, later, like something found.
The nearer the minster the later to mass.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
The pearls of a bride on her wedding day are the tears that will be shed later.
Life's battle don't always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
The later in the evening, the more beautiful the people.
Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author.
Scratch first, itch later.
Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
Sooner or later perseverance achieves.
Think first your idea, for later regrets are useless.
Many families are built on laughter.
He who flatters with laughter wants to see you cry.
Some will learn through pain and sorrow, others through joy and laughter, so it is written.
How lovely is the sun after rain, and how lovely is laughter after sorrow.
Laughter cannot bring back what anger has driven away.
Laughter is the hiccup of a fool.
The antics of a market buffoon provide laughter, but nobody prays that his child becomes the market buffoon.
Bricks and mortar make a house, but the laughter of children make a home.
Much laughter, little brains.
What soap is to the body, laughter is to the soul.
The greatest death is laughter.
The laughter of someone pining for his beloved is like that of someone who is always crying.
While life yet lasts, laughter and molasses.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Where there is laughter happiness likes to be.
No one was ever hurt by laughter.
You will never be punished for making people die of laughter.
A small cottage wherein laughter lives is worth more than a castle full of tears.
Laughter does wonders for the heart.
A ripple of laughter is worth a flood of tears.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Ill-timed laughter is a dangerous evil.
A house without a dog, a cat, or a little child is a house without joy or laughter.
The most beautiful laughter comes from the mouth of a mourner.
The weaknesses of old age are no fit cause for laughter, since they must be our own portion at the end.
Laughter can be heard further than weeping.
The more fools, the more laughter.
A poor joke must invent its own laughter.
By much laughter you detect the fool.
The tears of an heir are laughter under a mask.
The laughter, the tears, and the song of a woman are equally deceptive.
Cough is the old man's laughter.
The laughter of a child lights up the house.
The antics of a market buffoon provide laughter.
A ripple of laughter is worth a flood of tears.
Laziness is a heavy burden.
To try and fail is not laziness.
Laziness goes so slowly that poverty overtakes it.
Luck and laziness go hand in hand.
A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.
The seed of all evil is laziness.
Laziness is the sibling of starvation.
To try and fail is not laziness.
The laziness of youths is worse than war.
A life of leisure and a life of laziness are different things.
A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.
Laziness is the devil's pillow.
The acre of laziness is full of thistles.
Small laziness leads to big laziness.
Laziness is often mistaken for patience.
A job feeds a man, laziness spoils him.
Laziness likes to justify itself for not doing anything.
What makes the road long is laziness to go.
Laziness keeps on and on, but it arrives at poverty.
A church without a leader is prey for the devil.
The frog select a leader.
He that would be a leader must be a bridge.
A change of event such as the death of a leader, will lead to other changes.
You are not born a leader, you become one.
If you are a leader of peace, listen to the discourse of the petitioner. Be not abrupt with him; that would trouble him.
A leader must stand alone.
For one mission, there is one leader.
A leader does not rise for a squirrel.
A good leader was once a good follower.
A leader is he who tells his people what they must hear, not what they want to hear.
He who fears fire cannot be a leader.
A spiritual leader is able to see the past, present and the future.
A leader is not necessarily one who knows the way but one who thinks he knows the way.
The song that has no leader, goes wrong.
The leader follows in front.
A good leader makes a good follower.
Virtue our leader, fortune our companion.
A born leader sees which way the crowd is going and steps in ahead.
Prefer the leader who comes to you.
Without a leader, black ants are confused.
A leader who does not take advice is not a leader.
As fast as laws are devised, their evasion is contrived.
Laws go where dollars please.
Laws go where money pleases.
Having drunk the country's water, one should obey the country's laws.
Laws are silent in time of war.
The maker of laws must be severe; who executes them must be generous.
With customs we live well, but laws undo us.
For the upright there are no laws.
There's neither success nor efficiency without authority and laws.
Better no law than laws not enforced.
Laws were made for rogues.
Laws without penalties are like bells without clappers.
Laws without punishment are like bells with no clackers.
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.
Necessity knows no laws.
Laws have wax noses.
Laws, like the spider's web, catch the fly and let the hawk go free.
Where there are no laws, they can't be broken.
Laws control the lesser man... Right conduct controls the greater one.
Laws too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed.
Where drums beat, laws are dumb.
Few laws, good nations.
New laws, new roguery.
New lords, new laws.
Customs are stronger than laws.
Laws go as kings like.
Wrong laws make short governance.
New lords, new laws.
When drums beat, laws are silent.
Laws go the way kings direct.
Man's law changes with his understanding of man. Only the laws of the spirit remain always the same.
Those who make laws should not break laws.
New Lords, new Laws.
If you're not a King don't make new laws; leave the world the way you find it.
Men make laws; women make morals.
Hide not the truth from your confessor, your doctor, or your lawyer.
A lawyer looks at you with one eye, but he looks at your pocket with two.
Unmistakable lawyer. Immortal medicineman.
A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are.
The lawyer will extend the frontiers of a fight.
A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor.
No good lawyer ever goes to court himself.
If god doesnt take a lawyer, the devil will haul him away.
The better lawyer, the worse Christian.
Go not with every ailment to the doctor, with every plea to the lawyer, or with every thirst to the can.
Lawyer for the rich, scourge of the poor.
He that is his own lawyer has a fool for a client.
Don't take every ill to the doctor, or every quarrel to the lawyer, or every thirst to the tavern.
When you are very angry, don't go to a lawyer; when you are very hungry, don't be a poet.
Talking is cheap until you hire a lawyer to do it for you.
A good lawyer, an evil neighbour.
A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client.
A lawyer and a cart-wheel must be greased.
A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor.
It's an ill cause that a lawyer thinks shame of.
A wise lawyer never goes to law himself.
Don't go to the doctor for every malady, nor to the lawyer for every disagreement, nor to the fountain for every thirst.
A lawyer needs three bags: one full of papers, one full of money, and one full of patience.
A good lawyer is a bad neighbor.
If the devil is going to disguise himself, it will be as a monk or a lawyer.
A good lawyer is a bad neighbour.
Unmistakable lawyer.
A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are.
The good lawyer knows the law, the clever one knows the judge.
The coroner and the lawyer grow fat on the quarrels of fools.
A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client.
It is pleasant to cut thongs on another man's leather.
There is nothing like leather.
Broad thongs may be cut from other men's leather.
It is easy to cut thongs form other men's leather.
From the leather of others you can cut long strips.
Large thongs of another man's leather.
Raw leather will stretch.
There is thick sandal leather on his face.
Men cut large thongs of other men's leather.
He who sees leather cut asks for a thong.
Of other men's leather large thongs.
Liberal enough of another man's leather.
Where there is no jealousy a small hare's leather is enough to cover four people.
Some cut lang whangs aff ither folk's leather.
I ne'er lo'ed water in my shoon, and my wame's made o' better leather.
The rattan basket criticizes the palm leaf basket, still both are full of holes.
Even a leaf does not flutter on the tree without the will of God.
With patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Who is in fear of every leaf must not go into the wood.
Time and patience change the mulberry leaf to satin.
An old banana leaf was once young and green.
If you sleep under a tree, you can't prevent the leaf from falling on you.
A gold branch with a jade leaf.
Cover the back of an image of Buddha with gold leaf.
The heart of a woman is as capricious as a drop of water on a lotus leaf.
A noh siame diay leaf drop a river bottom it rotten.
The fall of a leaf is a whisper to the living.
Have patience and the mulberry leaf will become satin.
The words of God are not like the oak leaf which dies and falls to the earth, but like the pine tree which stays green forever.
Roots do not know what a leaf has in mind.
The begining of a mat-making is two slips of raffia leaf.
Patience is power; with time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Patience and the mulberry leaf become a silk robe.
Every fresh banana leaf should eventually become a dry banana leaf.
The insect that eats the leaf is under the leaf.
Roots do not know what a leaf has in mind.
The fall of a dead leaf is a warning to the green ones.
With patience and time the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Good repute is like the cypress: once cut, it never puts forth leaf again.
With time and art the leaf of the mulberry-tree becomes satin.
No leaf shudders outside the will of God.
As the bird goes from leaf to leaf, the yawn goes from man to man.
There is no fish in well-water, there is no leaf on dry wood.
The fall of a leaf is a whisper to the living.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it comes home broken at last.
The husband is always the last to know.
Only what you have combated for will last.
Patching makes a garment last long..
The joy of a poor man does not last long.
Be the first to the field and the last to the couch.
Courtesy on one side can never last long.
A rash man, a skin of good wine, and a glass vessel, do not last long.
Laugh better he who laughs last.
Who dangles after the great is the last at table and the first to be cuffed.
He who perseveres wins at last.
At last the foxes all meet at the furrier's.
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
Sorrow is like rice in the store; if a basketful is removed everyday, it will come to an end at last.
A wolf hankers after sheep even at his last gasp.
Courtesy that is all on one side cannot last long.
Better a stride that will last than a trot that tires fast.
Don't break down, rope; this is the last jerk.
The last to breathe is the first to drown.
It is no use fretting after last winter's snow.
The first decision of a woman is the most intelligent and the last decision most dangerous.
A cat has nine lives; for three he plays, for three he strays, and for the last three he stays.
Cobbler, stick to thy last.
The last benefit is most remembered.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
Last ship, best ship.
The last straw breaks the camel's back.
The cobbler should stick to his last.
The person who pours water to other is the last one to drink.
He laughs most he who laughs last.
Ever one hair, only one, and the man is bald at last.
He who lives in a glass house should be the last to throw stones.
He who shoots often, hits at last.
What ripens fast does not last.
Reputations last longer than lives.
The blacksmith's horse and the cobbler's wife are always the last to have shoes.
The man who was dividing Ireland didn't leave himself last.
Better the first of its kind than the last.
He, who laughs last, laughs the longest.
At a great river be the last to pass.
The last comer shuts the door.
Hope is the last thing ever lost.
He laughs well who laughs last.
The fool has to do at last what the wise did at first.
Hope is the last to abandon the unhappy.
That which the wise man does first, the fool does last.
Good memories last long, bad ones last longer.
Gather and spare can last long.
The sweetness of food doesn't last long, but the sweetness of good words do.
The first seeding on the feast of All Saints and the last on the feast of Saint Andrew.
The last partridge to rise gets the most sticks thrown at it.
The fly flutters about the candle till at last it gets burnt.
To want the last from the pot.
Creaking carts last the longest.
Forced love does not last.
Christmas has been talked of so long that it has come at last.
Foxes come at last to the furrier's.
The greatest king must at last be put to bed with a shovel.
It will last out our time; if after us no grass grows, what does it matter to us?
The vulture embraced the chicken until its last breath.
Stones decay; words last.
Holyday time will not last forever.
You cannot build a house for last year's summer.
The first camel in the train holds everyone up, but it is the last which gets the beating.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
When the last tree has been cut down, the last river has been polluted and the last fish has been caught -- only then do you realize that money can't buy everything.
Be first at the feast, and last at the fight.
'tis the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
The first may become the last.
A man has the same last name as his brother.
Relations last longer when the family is in distress.
Food will last while the forests last.
The first thing one should own is a home; and it is the last thing one should sell; for a home is ones tomb this side of heaven.
They laugh well who laugh last.
Once the last tree is cut and the last river poisoned, you will find you cannot eat your money.
Firm breasts don't last long.
A noisy drumming does not last long.
Last night I made a thousand plans, but this morning I went my old way.
Habits are cobwebs at first, cables at last.
Be first in the field, the last to the couch.
The flowers in your garden don't smell as sweet as those in the wild, but they last much longer.
Tough times don't last, tough people do.
You cannot build a house for last year's summer.
The longest mile is the last mile home.
Don't start economizing when you are down to your last dollar.
Pride is said to be the last vice the good man gets clear of.
Pride is the last vice a good man gets clear of.
Better late than never.
When you are thirsty, it is too late to think about digging a well.
He who arrives too late finds the plate turned over.
Great talents mature late.
He who always thinks it is too soon, is sure to come too late.
Better late than never.
Better late than never.
Better late than never.
In a village with too many roosters morning will come late.
It's never too late to mend.
The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass.
It's never too late.
'tis too late to spare when the cask is bare.
Once the rice is pudding, it's too late to reclaim the rice.
When your horse in on the brink of a precipice, it is too late to pull the reins.
He that marries late marries ill.
It is good to marry late or never.
The late comer is ill lodged.
A little too late, is much too late.
‘Tis too late to spare when the pocket is bare.
Don't go early or late to the well.
It is too late for you, let God give your children some intelligence.
Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others.
Better late than never.
He who is in a hurry always arrives late.
The person in a hurry usually arrives late.
Who depends on another man's table often dines late.
It is too late to come with water when the house is burnt down.
Go early to market and as late as you can to battle.
The Trojans were wise too late.
Ideas are something that usually comes like fireman- too late.
Better early than late.
It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted.
It's too late to close the stable door after the horse has escaped.
It is never too late to offer anything that is good.
If the icy snow carries you at midsummer, then we can expect a late spring.
If you urge the donkey on, you'll arrive late, if you let the donkey amble, you'll arrive early.
Better reap two days too soon than one too late.
It is too late to cry "Hold hard!” when the arrow has left the bow.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the horses have already been stolen.
Better late than never.
Good, that comes too late, is good as nothing.
God keep you from "It is too late.”.
Late repentance is rarely sincere.
What is late is great.
We grow too soon old and too late smart.
It's too late to rise early when you wake eleven o'clock.
It is never too late to give to those who do not have.
Never too late to learn.
While we consider when to begin, it becomes too late.
A man will never heed the voice of a woman until it is too late.
A human learns how to talk early, but how to keep silent late.
One may get up late if one has the name of getting up early.
When a thing is done, advice comes too late.
Death always comes too early or too late.
Late children are early orphans.
It is never too late to learn.
Refers to people who are late in doing things.
Better come late to church than never.
Late repentance is seldom worth much.
We get too soon old and too late smart.
It is too late to throw water on the cinders when the house is burnt down.
Good counsel never comes too late.
'tis never too late to mend.
Better late than never.
A late repentance is a dogs idea.
God neither hurries, nor is late.
He who comes late gets bones for lunch.
He that hurries will be late.
Better late than never.
He who fears every bush, comes late to the wood.
Better late thrive then never.
Come it aire, come it late, in May comes the Cow-quake.
Who is late will be left without.
Timely rain cheers my soul; water and sun during seeding, inspires hope; the rains of April and May are late at night; then the good mornings, will be the wealth of the houses.
If the olive trees blossom in April, you'll have enough to collect them with barrels; if they bud in May, you'll have enough to fill a small measure; but if as late as June, you'll only be collecting handfuls.
The dog that's late is bringing the catch.
Late marriages, premature orphans.
Had you gotten up early, you wouldn't have needed to stay up late.
It's never too late to die or get married.
A little too late is much too late.
When had comes, have is too late.
A late Easter, a long cold spring.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
He who is waiting for someone else's bowl often dines late.
Too late to grieve when the chance is past.
Too late the bird cries out when it is caught.
It is too late for the bird to scream when it is caught.
To leap into a pool embracing a stone.
A leap year is never a good sheep year.
He who would leap high must take a long run.
Better is a leap over the ditch than the entreaties of good men.
He who is an ass and takes himself to be a stag finds his mistake when he comes to leap the ditch.
A mule that thinks he is a stag discovers his mistake when he comes to leap over the ditch.
He is a fool who loses the flight for the leap.
Look before you leap.
A great leap gives a great shake.
Look before you leap.
Think before you leap.
He who would leap far must first take a long run.
Look before you leap, For snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
'But' is a fence over which few leap.
There the hedge is lowest, men leap over.
"but” is a fence over which few leap.
Half a leap falls into the ditch.
Men leap over where the hedge is lowest.
You're blessed if you're here on Leap year.
Men leap over where the hedge is lower.
He that takes too great a leap falls into the ditch.
One must step back to make the better leap.
Think before you leap.
Look before you leap.
Many stumble at a straw and leap over a block.
If you leap into a well, providence is not bound to fetch you out.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone.
In the home of the coward they laugh while in the home of the brave they cry.
A good laugh and a long sleep are the two best cures in the doctor's book.
As long as the clouds dolt weep, the pasture cannot laugh.
Laugh better he who laughs last.
When the mice laugh at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
If you rush things, you'll just make others laugh.
You may laugh at a friend's roof; don't laugh at his sleeping accommodation.
If you want to give God a good laugh, tell him of your future plans.
Our wasted days are the days we never laugh.
The teeth that laugh are also those that bite.
Only men laugh, only men weep, only men dance.
Talk about things of tomorrow and the mice inside the ceiling laugh.
The gods just laugh when men pray to them for wealth.
A child does not laugh at the ugliness of his mother.
The deaf laugh twice.
Those who have not crossed the river yet should not laugh at those who are drowning.
They laugh at you when your going but when you came back with a load they're a shamed.
Laugh till you cry, sorrow till you die.
It is a great art to laugh at your own misfortune.
They are not all friends who laugh with you.
A man with a loud laugh makes truth itself seem folly, Truth is great and will win out.
One with the courage to laugh is master of the world almost as much as the one who is ready to die.
The thief's wife does not always laugh.
Don't laugh when your neighbors oven is on fire.
The young laugh when the old fall.
When kitchen dresser tumble dung, maaga dog laugh.
When you're invited, eat heartily, because if they like you they'll laugh, and if they don't like you they'll feel the pangs of death.
Poverty is no joy, although it sometimes makes you laugh.
The price of a laugh is too high, if it is raised at the expense of another.
If Jesus Christ comes to help me, I laugh at the angels.
Those who love you will make you weep; those who hate you will make you laugh.
If you laugh at the bowl, you laugh at the potter.
One in the woodpile does not laugh at one in the fire.
May the crazy not die to make people laugh.
They laugh well who laugh last.
Laugh and grow fat.
Laugh before breakfast, you'll cry before supper.
Every skin teeth ain't a laugh.
Laugh all the way to the bank.
We can laugh happily with our children, but not with money.
Your years will still remain the same whether you laugh or cry.
When you talk about future happenings the devil starts to laugh.
When men speak of the future, the gods laugh.
A bowl should not laugh when a calabash breaks.
The dog never minds not to laugh.
Don't laugh at others.
We seldom fear what we can laugh at.
Laugh and grow fat.
Laugh and show your ignorance.
Let them laugh that win.
To laugh at a man with sense is the privilege of fools.
Laugh before breakfast and you'll cry before lunch.
Men laugh with their heart, women only with their mouth.
He who tickles himself can laugh when he pleases.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone.
It is as much intemperance to weep too much, as to laugh too much.
People show their character by what they laugh at.
Those who tickle themselves may laugh when they please.
The laugh is always on the loser.
A wise man can laugh at his jokes.
If you laugh to-day, you will cry to-morrow.
When a father gives to his son, both laugh; when a son gives to his father, both cry.
When you're hungry, sing; when you're hurt, laugh.
Among those who stand, do not sit; among those who sit, do not stand. Among those who laugh, do not weep; among those who weep, do not laugh.
To cry with one eye, and laugh with the other.
Girne when you knit, and laugh when ye loose.
Laugh, and lay down again.
Laugh at leisure ye may greet ere night.
Money has the capability of making people laugh; but when they laugh, the foolish ones sometimes forget to close their mouths.
Who has not suffered from wounds will laugh at scars.
When the old man falls, don't laugh, the young have also fallen.
If anybody makes you laugh, it is not always because he loves you.
When a father gives to his son, they both laugh.
Laugh and everyone sees it, cry and no one sees it.
He that tickles himself, may laugh when he will.
Will laugh well who will laugh the last.
They will be hushed by a good deed who laugh at a wise speech.
Saying well causes a laugh; doing well produces silence.
He'll laugh well that laughs longest.
A good laugh is sunshine in a house.
If you want to make God laugh, tell him your plans.
Let me go warm, and folks may laugh.
It is better to weep with wise men than to laugh with fools.
Laugh with those that laugh.
Laugh, if you are wise.
Let them laugh that win.
The one who loves you will make you cry, the one who hates you will make you laugh.
There is hope from the sea but there is no hope from the land.
Women are just like cats -- they always land on their feet.
No one is a prophet in his own land.
If we dig precious things from the land, we will invite disaster.
Who buys land buys war.
When you buy beef, you buy bones; when you buy land, you buy rocks.
Flies will not land on a boiling pot.
The most extensive land is the human belly.
He lives in the land of promise.
It is never winter in the land of hope.
No man's a prophet in his own land.
When you are looking for a country with no tombstones you will find yourself in the land of cannibals.
No land without stones, no meat without bones.
Nobody will plough the land except its cows.
The land where the stones know you is worth more than the land where the people know you.
That land fares ill where the king's but a babe.
It is unwise for one to think that a hen will ever be accorded respect in the land of the hawks.
We do not inherit the land from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children.
A clean mouth and honest hand, will take a man through any land.
Hat in hand goes through the land.
The one-eyes is a king in the land of the blind.
Every land to its own custom, every wheel its own spindle.
Do not judge of the ship from the land.
When house and land are gone and spent, then learning is most excellent.
If peace reigns in the land, a nun can govern it.
It is better to work in your own land than to count your money abroad.
Smoke in your own country is purer than fire in a foreign land.
Watch out lest the canoe land on a rocky reef.
A coral reef strengthens into land.
A coral reef hardens into land.
Iceland is the best land on which the sun shines.
An honest man would rather sell his land than tell a lie.
When a man remembers the land, the land remembers him.
Better a ruined than a lost land.
Better poor on land that rich at sea.
In the land of promise a man may die of hunger.
In the land of the blind, one-eye is king.
A handful of dirt is pleasing if it's your own land.
The land a man knows is his mother.
One is born, one dies; the land grows.
We have not inherited this land from our ancestors; rather we have borrowed it from our children.
Flies' legs, like the tongue of critics, land on whatever they find.
Learn to rise up out of the enigmatic egg in the hidden land.
The supreme law of the land is the Great Spirit's law, not man's law.
A splinter doesn't land far from the trunk.
Salt comes from north, gold from south and silver from the land of Whites, but the Word of God, the famous things, histories and fairy tales, we only find them in Timbuktu.
The land is a chief, and a person is its lowly servant.
The life of the land is the life of the people.
When weeds invade the land, it means the owner is absent.
The rebellious dwell in a dry land.
If a father does not cultivate, the son does not inherit land.
The land is cultivated by its own oxen.
One is born, one dies; the land increases.
The land of marriage has this peculiarity: That strangers are desirous of inhabiting it, while its natural inhabitants would gladly be exiled.
Where water is the boss, there must the land obey.
If two brothers fight over their father's land, it is a stranger who will enjoy there sweat and labour.
One is born, one dies; the land increases.
In a strange land one should always move near one's kinsmen.
When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it.
A bird may fly off the earth and land on an anthill, but it will still be on the ground.
Take what you need and leave our land the way you found it.
If you want to clean the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
Many a one for land takes a fool by the hand.
One acre of performance, is worth twenty of the land of promise.
A clean hand moves freely through the land.
It is folly to drown on dry land.
A lord without land, is like a cask without wine.
The sword keeps the peace of the land.
A nail secures the horse-shoe, the shoe the horse, the horse the man, the man the castle, and the castle the whole land.
Better free in a foreign land than a serf at home.
Every land has its own law.
Little drops of water, little grains of sand, make the mighty ocean and the pleasant land.
Not every land has all at hand.
In the land of the cripple everyone thinks he walks straight.
Everyone praises his own land.
Praise the sea but keep near land.
Don't bless the fish till it gets to the land.
Drink is the curse of the land. It makes you fight with your neighbour. It makes you shoot at your landlord – and it makes you miss him.
The Donkey, though it may go to the Holy Land, will still come back a donkey.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is a king.
Praise the sea, and keep on land.
When God punishes a land, he deprives it's leaders of wisdom.
Dumb men get no land.
On fat land grow foulest weeds.
Every land hes his lauch, and every corne hes the caff.
He that lippens to bon plows, his land will ly ley.
The leech that does not let go even when it is filled, dies on the dry land.
The lazier a man is, the more he plans to do tomorrow.
The lazy one is pregnant in the sowing season.
A lazy tailor finds his thread too long.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the angel of death.
Lazy people will eventually lose even their trousers.
The lazy is a brother of the begger.
The lazy work twice as much.
The lazy ox drinks dirty water.
The lazy man who goes to borrow a spade says, "I hope I will not find one.”.
The lazy one stands up between one armchair and another.
Work for nought makes folks dead lazy.
When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them.
Blame is the lazy man's wages.
Winter comes fast on the lazy.
The lazy servant takes eight steps to avoid one.
He who is not lazy shall get much green.
Long and lazy, little and loud; fat and fulsome, pretty and proud.
Offer the lazy man an egg, and he'll want you to peel it for him.
Who is generous is lazy, who is angry is diligent.
The lazy sweat when they eat and complain of the cold when they work.
A lazy ox is little the better for the goad.
The lazy man always does twice the work.
I a lazy lout, you a lazy lout, marry me, Antonia.
For the lazy and the poor, everything always takes twice the effort.
The lazy man is apt to be envious.
When your finger is in pain, your sight is not lazy.
A lazy person with a nephwe does not eat dry rice.
A lazy fly cannot have a taste of a fresh wound.
It is in the eyes of a lazy man that maize will ripen.
A lazy man will remember he has not planted when is neighbour is harvesting.
A lazy chick that exposes itself will be a delicious meal for the eagle.
A lean fee is a fit reward for a lazy clerk.
A lazy man will be an astrologer.
A lazy boy and a warm bed are difficult to part.
The ground is always frozen for the lazy swine.
It is a bad sheep that is too lazy to carry its own fleece.
Towards evening the lazy person begins to get busy.
The Hungarian is far too lazy to be bored.
For lazy people it is always party time.
Tell a lazy man to do something. Listen to philosophy!
A busy women has a lazy daughter, a lazy women has a busy daughter.
A lazy man works twice.
A lazy thief is better than a lazy servant.
It is a lazy man who says "it is only because I have no time that my farm is overgrown with weeds".
Tomorrow says the lazy.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a farmer too lazy to plant his field.
A lazy woman is never virtuous.
Saints sleep three hours, merchants sleep five, ordinary people seven and the lazy sleep nine.
A lazy messenger is not short of excuses.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the Angel of Death.
Lazy people are always eager to be doing something.
A good borrower is a lazy payer.
The lazy servant to save one step takes eight.
The lazy person has no work and has no time.
Bad road and lazy horse.
The lazy man is jealous of the one who works and succeeds.
He who is not lazy shall get much green.
Lazy people always want to do everything at the same time.
Winter comes on the lazy man.
A lazy messenger is not short of excuses.
A lazy tailor uses a long thread.
If you want a beautiful woman, hurry to Syracuse: if you want her ugly, run to Terranova, go to Rosolini if you want her lazy and to Spaccaforno if you're looking for one to try.
You can only lean against that which resists.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
The fat buffalo will attract the lean buffalo.
In a wealthy man's house there is no lean dog.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgment.
A lean agreement is better than a fat lawsuit.
Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth.
The well-fed does not understand the lean.
Do not lean on a worm-eaten staff.
Lean meat from a fat pig.
The envious man's face grows lean and his eye swells.
You must take the fat with the lean.
Starlings are lean because they go in flocks.
Better a lean agreement than a fat sentence.
A fat kitchen, a lean testament.
Flies flock to the lean horse.
Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been leant to you.
Don't lean on your fellow men - theirs is an ever moving support.
An envious man waxes lean with the fatness of his neighbour.
A man that is lean, not from hunger, is harder than brass.
Fortune is like a wall that falls on those who lean on it.
You can lean on a bamboo stick, but not on a rope.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgement.
A lean fee is a fit reward for a lazy clerk.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
A lean calf forgets to skip.
A tottering man must lean upon a staff.
It is bad to lean against a falling wall.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will.
Better a lean agreement than a fat lawsuit.
Lean liberty is better than fat slavery.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
A goose, a woman, and a goat, are bad things lean.
A lean horse does not kick.
Long lean wakes hameald cattell.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will.
He who eats the king's cow lean, pays for it fat.
The lean dog is all fleas.
A clean pig makes lean bacon.
The hedge is trodden down where it seems to lean.
We're hungry and lean.
One with lean meat or merely even just the skin is better off than one with mushrooms.
Better a lean accord than a hefty sentence.
However lean the meat may be, it goes well upon bread.
Do not believe that you will reach your destination without leaving the shore.
Tigers die and leave their stripes, but humans die leaving their names.
A good payer will not object to leaving a deposit.
Arriving and leaving, hoping and remembering, that's what life consists of.
What a sad basket, leaving and returning empty.
Do not hope to reach a destination without leaving the shore.
Never celebrate someone's leaving, until you know who will succeed him.
Talking something over is better than leaving it pending.
Before you love, learn to run through snow without leaving footprints.
If you follow the lead of the cockerel, you'll be led to the poulterer.
Whoever lets himself be led by the heart will never lose his way.
He who follows the crow will be led the the corpses of dogs.
Always to court and never to wed is the happiest life that ever was led.
An army of stags led by a lion would be more formidable than one of lions led by a stag.
Shall the sheep go astray, they will be led by the ill goat.
The crowd is not led by the head but by the heart.
The wife is twice precious only; when led into the house, and when taken out.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
The developments have led to the breaking if bread.
The child led by the hand never learns to walk.
Be not led by flattery.
There is no law written for fools.
To love the law is to lose money.
Neither break a law nor make one.
Need is not governed by the law.
Law is like a shaft of a cart, it points wherever you turn it to.
When force is imposed, the law is a joke.
You only hear three voices in this world: the babbling of the stream, jewish law, and money.
It is better to have no law than not enforcing it.
Custom and law are sisters.
Law is a lickpenny.
Law governs man, and reason the law.
A penny-weight of love is worth a pound of law.
Example is better than law.
To know the law and do the right are two things.
Law helps the waking, luck may come to the sleeping.
There is no law but has a hole in it, for those who can find it out.
Go to law for a sheep and lose your cow.
Self-preservation is the first law of nature.
Necessity knows no law.
Law is costly; shake hands and be friends.
A good denial, the best point in law.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse for breaking it.
Love has no law.
Love knows no law.
Much law, but little justice.
Like king, like law; like law, like people.
Nonviolence is the supreme law of life.
Better no law than laws not enforced.
In a thousand pounds of law there is not one ounce of love.
As soon as a new law is made, a way around it is devised.
Hard is a new law imposed on old licence.
He that loves law will soon get his fill of it.
Custom and law are sisters.
The law is not made for the rich.
It is the law that judges, not the judge.
Agree, agree, for the law is costly.
Law is a flag and gold is the wind that makes it wave.
Fear the law not the judge.
Custom becomes law.
Every law is broken to become a king.
Hunger has no law; it's just hungry.
The supreme law of the land is the Great Spirit's law, not man's law.
There's one law for the rich, and another for the poor.
The law helps those who watch, not those who sleep.
The law does not concern itself about trifles.
One law for the rich and another for the poor.
Usage is like law.
The law is good, but people are not.
Going to law is losing a cow for the sake of a cat.
Easy to believe in heaven's law, but so hard to keep.
A chief should not create a new law when he is angry.
Better no law than a law not enforced.
Where law ends, tyranny begins.
Nature is the true law.
Law cannot persuade where it cannot punish.
Where law lacks, honour should eke it out.
To circumstances and custom the law must yield.
Better no law, than law not enforced.
God gives the will, necessity gives the law.
Where will is right, law is banished.
Presents make women affable, priests indulgent, and the law crooked.
The more by law, the less by right.
Every land has its own law.
Possession is nine-tenths of the law.
Don't go to law with the devil in the court of hell.
Being ignorant of law is no excuse.
Necessity has no law.
No sooner is a law made than a way around it is discovered.
No sooner is the law made than its evasion is discovered.
To do things wrong with best intentions is better than acting to the letter of the law with evil intentions.
Custom rules the law.
The law grows of sin, and chastises it.
The law is good, if a man use it lawfully.
Every law has a loophole.
In distress there is no law.
Shew me the man, and I will shew you the Law.
A wise lawyer never goes to law himself.
The law is three days older than the earth.
Necessity knows no law.
Possession is nine points of the law.
Necessity has no law.
There is no law written for fools ( if it is written it's not read, if it is read it's not understood, if it is understood, in the wrong way).
Custom is stronger than law.
When violence comes into the house, law and justice leave through the chimney.
The rich man transgresses the law, and the poor man is punished.
Some go to law, for the wagging of a straw.
The law of requital of injury by injury.
Necessity recognizes no law.
A man in this world without learning is as a beast of the field.
Don't look for more honor than your learning merits.
Reperition is a mother of learning.
Learning means loving the country.
Keep learning because knowledge is the key to power.
By learning to obey, you will know how to command.
A day of travelling will bring a basketful of learning.
With great learning, a horse, and money, you may travel the world.
A man with little learning is like the frog who thinks its pond is an ocean.
There are no national frontiers to learning.
Teaching is half learning.
Learning makes some into mullahs and some into devils.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
A little Learning is a dangerous thing.
He who is afraid to ask is ashamed of learning.
Learning is a treasure no thief can touch.
When house and land are gone and spent, then learning is most excellent.
You are learning all your life and you die stupid.
Patience surpasses learning.
There is no royal road to learning.
A handful of motherwit is worth a bushel of learning.
Man is learning all his life and yet he dies in ignorance.
Learning is a golden urn that can never be stolen.
A wise teacher makes learning a joy.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of learning.
Learning Zen is a phenomenon of gold and dung. Before you understand it, it's like gold; after you understand it, it's like dung.
Wealth, if you use it, comes to an end; learning, if you use it, increases.
Wisdom is attained by learning when to hold one's tongue.
Do not confine your children to your own learning, for they were born in another time.
Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere.
Learning is a treasure which accompanies its owner everywhere.
Learning is weightless, treasure you can always carry easily.
Learning is treasure no thief can touch.
Diligence is the vehicle on the paths of Mountains of Books; endurance is the vessel on the courses of the Seas of Learning.
Despise learning and make everyone pay for your ignorance.
Gold has its price; learning is beyond price.
Solid learning makes a man fit company for himself.
If you have wit and learning, add to it wisdom and modesty.
Wise men learn from other men's mistakes; fools insist on learning from their own.
A handful of good life, is better than a bushel of learning.
By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn.
Everyone is weary: the poor in seeking, the rich in keeping, the good in learning.
Learning makes a man fit company for himself as well as for others.
Learning makes a good man better and a bad man worse.
There is no royal road to learning.
One pound of learning could require an army of common sense to apply it .
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
Folly and learning often dwell together.
To be without learning, is to be without eyes.
Learning is fine clothes for the rich man, and riches for the poor man.
To come out of one's house means learning.
Travelling is learning.
Learning is there for every man.
By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
Learning has sour roots, but pleasant fruits.
Learning is the eye of the mind.
Learning through the heel.
A man in this world without learning is as a beast of the field.
Learning, jewels, virtues, good habits, polite manners, sweet speech, artistry accept them from whatever source offers.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
He who is ashamed of asking, is ashamed of learning.
One pound of learning might have required many thousand persons of common sense to acquire it.
Neither trust or contend, nor lay wagers or lend, and you'll have peace to your end.
He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow.
If the hen had not cackled, we should not know she had laid an egg.
If you were born lucky, even your rooster will lay eggs.
No matter how much the world changes, cats will never lay eggs.
Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
By all means make friends with the dog, but do not lay aside the stick.
However full the house, the hen finds a corner to lay in.
A cackling hen doesn't always lay.
Never lay sorrow to your heart when others lay it to their heels.
Kill not the goose that laid the golden egg.
His hens lay eggs with two yolks.
Raise no more devils than you can lay.
Where comes a cow the wiseman lay down, there follows a woman, and where comes a woman follows trouble.
The Chicken teaches the hen to lay eggs.
Lay your hand on your bosom and you will not speak ill of another.
You cackle in our place but you lay your eggs at someone else's place.
Don't reckon your eggs before they are laid.
Lay it on thick and some of it will stick.
It is in vain to lay a net in sight of the birds.
Lay on more wood; ashes give money.
Alligator lay egg but him no fowl.
He cannot lay eggs, but he can cackle.
Hens like to lay where they see an egg.
Precaution said, Good friend, this counsel keep: strip not yourself until you're laid to sleep.
Would I know where I'd fall, I'd lay some straw there ahead of time.
Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear.
You cannot cook one half of the chicken and leave the other lay eggs.
The first hen that cackles is the one that laid the egg.
Black fowl can lay white eggs.
The best laid plans of mice and men often go astray.
Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear.
Even clever hens sometimes lay their eggs among nettles.
Whatever is given to the poor, is laid out of the reach of fortune.
Fat hens lay few eggs.
The sun will bring to light what lay under the snow.
Make yourself an ass, and every one will lay his sack on you.
Words are good, but fowls lay eggs.
The hen likes to lay in a nest where there are eggs already.
When the hen had laid an egg she cackles.
You cackle often, but never lay an egg.
They that have got good store of butter may lay it thick on their bread.
Nought lay down, nought take up.
Lay up against a rainy day.
If you lay upon roses when young, you'll lie upon thorns when old.
Laugh, and lay down again.
Small birds lay small eggs.
Nobody grumbles while carrying a load, but when he has laid it down.
The grove of the hear is not laid open.
What lay hidden under the snow cometh to light at last.
All lay loads on a willing horse.
He who laid a snare for me has fallen into it.
When the journey is finished to lay up provisions for the journey.
It is easier to raise the Devil than to lay him.
All lay load on the willing horse.
In the snare laid for others is your foot taken.
That was laid on with a trowel.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
A guine- fowl not lay eggs on strange places.
When fools make mistakes, they lay the blame on providence.
Black fowl can lay white eggs.
He who is shipwrecked the second time cannot lay the blame on Neptune.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
Many a one would like to lay his own shame on another man's back.
Knowing hens lay even in nettles.
If you be a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
Don't say everything you want to say lest you hear something you would not like to hear.
Take counsel before it goes ill, lest it go worse.
Hew not too high, lest a chip fall in thine eye.
Judge not, lest ye be judged.
Hush, lest the wind arise.
Watch out lest the canoe land on a rocky reef.
The first occasion offered quickly take, lest thou repine at what thou didst forsake.
Thou shalt never sleep in the arms of a sorceress, lest she should lock thy limbs.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
Keep not ill company lest you increase the number.
Follow not truth too near the heels lest it dash out your teeth.
Pigs might fly lest they had wings.
Take care lest your tongue should cut off your head.
Leave a jest when it pleases lest it turn to earnest.
Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out.
Sow not money on the sea, lest it sink.
Strain not your bow beyond its bent, lest it break.
Seek not the luxuries of life lest you reap sorrow.
Follow not truth too near the heels, lest it dash out thy teeth.
Bourd not with Bawty, fear lest he bite ye.
He is as good a Catholic as Duke Alva's dog; who ate flesh in Lent.
Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been lent to you.
It is good to be priest at Easter, child in Lent, peasant at Christmas, and foal in harvest-time.
Money lent, an enemy made.
You have lent and not recovered; and if recovered, not so much; and if so much, not such; and if such, a mortal enemy.
Lent, which seems so long, is short at other men's tables.
Who wishes for a short Lent let him contract debts to be paid at Easter.
Have a bill to pay at Easter, and your Lent will be short.
Marry in Lent, and you'll live to repent.
The knife that has been lent, never comes back alone.
Marry in lent, and you'll learn to repent.
When I lent I had a friend; when I asked he was unkind.
You have lent and not recovered.
He is as welcome as the first day in Lent. (Alluding to fastday.)
A letter from the heart can be read on the face.
A beautiful face is a letter of recommendation.
Beauty is a good letter of introduction.
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.
In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter.
Never answer a letter while you are angry.
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.
A marriage in later years sends a letter to the grave digger.
Beauty is a good letter of introduction.
To do things wrong with best intentions is better than acting to the letter of the law with evil intentions.
The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.
The heart's letter is read in the eye.
A nice face is the best letter of recommendation.
Money is better than my lord's letter.
Egotism is an alphabet of one letter.
Love came in a paper bag, said the maiden when she got a letter from her sweetheart.
A jackfish does more than a letter of recommendation.
A prudent man will read the letter from back to front.
A letter once written cannot be recalled.
To do things wrong with best intentions is better than acting to the letter of the law with evil intentions.
The word that is heard perishes, but the letter that is written remains.
A beautiful face is a letter of recommendation.
Break the leg of a bad habit.
Those who wear pearls do not know how often the shark bites the leg of the diver.
You cannot dance well on only one leg.
If a centipede loses a leg, it does not prevent him from walking.
Let every sheep hand by its own leg.
A foolish fox is caught by one leg, but a wise one by all four.
If a centipede loses a leg, it can still walk.
The strongest ox is only as strong as the old ox with a broken leg.
Snake to snake, see the leg.
The wise man never takes a step too long for his leg.
When a bull gets his leg broken, he is sure to go back to his yard.
If God breaks your leg, he will teach you how to limp.
He who thinks too much about every step he takes will stay on one leg all his life.
When there is a misunderstanding between the left leg and right leg the entire body falls down.
If the goat would not jump around, she wouldn't break her leg.
Pulling the devil by the leg is a bad grip.
Every sheep is hung by his own leg.
Even a dog will not eat a leg without flesh.
Better a leg broken than the neck.
To him who gives you a capon you may spare a leg and a wing.
Let the crab take counsel with its leg.
A long skirt wraps around the leg, a long tongue wraps around the head.
Every sheep is hung by its own leg.
Lose a leg rather than life.
A double jointed arm follows the leg action.
He who deliberates fully before taking a step will spend his entire life on one leg.
A lizard without one leg cannot move up a tree.
You can't dance on one leg.
When your leg is sinking your whole body should fill it.
A broken leg is not healed by a silk stocking.
It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg, that another has broken his neck.
The hand goes only where the leg goes.
The horse's leg protrudes.
He who has not enough wit in the head, should force to replace it in the leg.
He has caught the leg of God.
Bed rest cures a hurt leg and a sling heals a hurting arm.
A lame of heart is not a lame of leg; he cannot be recognized.
So long as the wolf is captured the dog will bite his leg.
Every sheep is hung by his own leg.
I broke my leg, perhaps for my good.
If you tie a frog on the leg a snake will follow you.
If the goat would not jump around, she wouldn't break her leg.
A long skirt wraps around the leg, a long tongue wraps around the head.
It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg.
All roads lead to Moscow.
All roads lead to Rome.
All roads lead to Rome.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
All roads do not lead to rome.
All roads lead to Rome.
If you follow the lead of the cockerel, you'll be led to the poulterer.
Too much discussion will lead to a row.
Crosses are ladders which lead to heaven.
In a house of gold the clocks are of lead.
It is always the fat ones who lead the dance.
He who wants what God wants of him will lead a free and happy life.
All roads lead to Beijing.
Do not walk behind us, we may not lead; do not walk in front of us, we may not follow; walk besides us, so that we may guide each other.
No matter how long and winding the road might be, it will always lead you to your destination.
One drink can lead to one's downfall.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink.
Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night.
Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.
I too can lead the geese to water when it rains.
If the blind lead the blind, both fall into the ditch.
The world at large doesn't lead to hell nor does the monastery lead to heaven.
Every road does not lead to rome.
Vain speeches lead a man to the gallows.
Lead for old iron.
A change of event such as the death of a leader, will lead to other changes.
Two communists lead three hundred unaffiliated.
A sin of gold is followed by a punishment of lead.
Bad beginnings lead to bad results.
Do not only point out the way, but lead the way.
The talker will lead the dog to the meat market.
The sea aint got no backdoor; I can swim like lead.
A beautiful funeral does not necessarily lead to paradise.
Unless you're the lead sled dog, the view is pretty much the same.
All ways lead to the mill.
Force may lead to agreement, but truth will lead to conviction.
Be aware of a man with a sweet tongue he can lead you to buying bad meat.
A woman can't drive her husband, but she can lead him.
Bad actions lead to worse reactions.
Get what you can, and what you get, hold; it's the stone that will turn all your lead into gold.
The fates lead the willing man; an unwilling man they drag.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
If we are both masters, then who shall lead the mules?
Work paid for in advance has feet of lead.
Hunger will lead a fox out of the forest.
All roads lead to Rome.
He cannot lead a good life who serves without wages.
What you give for the cause of charity in health is gold; what you give in sickness is silver; what you give after death is lead.
All roads lead to Rom.
Even one hundred words lead to one end.
Goslings lead the geese to water.
The blind one asked the naked guy to lead him on.
The great thieves lead away the little thieves.
The balance in doing its office knows neither gold nor lead.
All roads lead to Rome.
He who at twenty understands nothing, at thirty knows nothing, and at forty has nothing, will lead a wretched old age.
Give assistance, and receive thanks lighter than a feather: injure a man, and his wrath will be like lead.
The blind would lead the blind.
Precepts may lead, but examples draw.
The good ways are many. There are many right ways of doing things. All roads lead to Rome.
Lead by example.
A man's personal god is a shepherd who finds pasturage for the man. Let him lead him like sheep to the food they can eat.
All roads lead to Rome.
Don't walk behind me; i may not lead. don't walk in front of me; i may not follow. walk beside me that we may be as one.
Don't walk behind me; I may not lead.
One drink can lead to one's downfall.
Many are the roads that do not lead to the heart.
I am a prince and you are a prince; who will lead the donkeys?.
But mortal bliss will never come sincere Pleasure may lead, but grief blow brings up the rear.
Cadgers speaks of lead saddles.
The goslings would lead the geese out to grass.
It is pleasant enough going afoot when you lead your horse by the bridle.
All roads do not lead to Rome.
Lead by Example.
Bad beginnings lead to a bad end.
Unemployment does not guarantee leisure.
Hasten at leisure.
We do in haste what we repent at leisure.
A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.
Marry in haste repent at leisure.
He who knows not how to employ his leisure hath more cares on his mind than the most busy of busily-engaged men.
To be totally at leisure for one day is to be immortal for one day.
To be for one day entirely at leisure is to be for one day an immortal.
A life of leisure and a life of laziness are different things.
A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.
Idle folks have the least leisure.
Deceit is in haste, but honesty can wait a fair leisure.
Sickness comes in haste, and goes at leisure.
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.
Joke at leisure, ye kenna wha may jybe you.
Laugh at leisure ye may greet ere night.
At my leisure, as lairds dee.
There is luck in leisure.
He has not leisure even to scratch his ears.
Make haste with leisure.
Marry in haste, and repent at leisure.
None but the wise man can employ leisure well.
Idle people have the least leisure.
Marry in haste and repent at leisure.
Lend a false ear to false words.
Don't shoot people you hate; don't lend to those you love.
Neither trust or contend, nor lay wagers or lend, and you'll have peace to your end.
You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money.
Don't worry if you borrow, but worry if you lend.
To lend your hatchet and get your forest cut down.
Never lend that thing you most need.
The world still he keeps at his staff's end that needs not to borrow and never will lend.
It is safe to lend barley to him who has oats.
During the battle you cannot lend your sword to anyone.
Be sure not to owe anything to the rich, and don't lend anything to the poor.
It is better to give than to lend and it costs about the same.
If you love him, don't lend him.
To lend is to buy a quarrel.
Does your neighbor bore you? Lend him some money.
Does your neighbour love you? Lend him a sequin.
Your wife and your wheelbarrow are two things that you should never lend to anyone.
I'm not going to lend you a stick to break my head with.
Never borrow, never lend if you wish to keep a friend.
It is good to lend to God and to the soil--they pay good interest.
Lend to your friend, and ask payment of your enemy.
Gone is gone; no Jew will lend upon it.
Give to the poor, lend to God.
If you would make an enemy, lend a man money, and ask for it back again.
Better give a penny than lend twenty.
A borrower may not lend the thing he borrowed.
If I can get his cart at a Waltar, I shall lend it a put.
Don't lend out something that you're going to soon need.
Your wife and your wheelbarrow -- lend them to no one.
You easily lend bread to the one who has flour.
People lend only to the rich.
Get what to lend out and at the same time how to demand it back, for payment might be a tussle.
You buy yourself an enemy when you lend a man money.
If you would make an enemy, lend a man money, and ask it of him again.
Lend your money and lose your friend.
There are four things to which you should not lend credence: love of women, the charity of friars, sun in the winter, and clouds in the summer.
You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money.
You lend light to the sun.
When the snake is in the house, one need not discuss the matter at length.
The shadow should be the same length as the body.
A hare is like an ass in the length of its ears, yet it is not its son.
Stretch your legs the length of your bed.
A finger's length in a sword, and a palm in a lance, are a great advantage.
Eat according to the limits of your provisions; walk according to the length of your step.
When peaches flower and ripen, days and nights have the same length.
Men do not limp while their legs are the same length.
Seven days is the length of a guest's life.
Your fingers can't be of the same length.
Only stretch you foot to the length of your blanket.
The person to whom things are brought does not know the length of the road.
You can't tell the depth of the well by the length of the handle on the pump.
Stretch your legs according to the length of your kilim.
A bow long bent at length waxeth weak.
Every one stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet.
At length the fox is brought to the furrier.
At length the fox turns monk.
What orators lack in depth, they make up for in length.
Every one stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet.
Length of time rots a stone.
Providence may delay, but punishment will come at length.
Length begets loathing.
Everyone stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet.
A person on whose head lice are being removed, must be grateful.
Every bed has lice.
Starved lice bite the hardest.
Lice flourish in rags.
As long as there are lice in the seams of the garment there must be bloodstains on the fingernails.
He has too many lice to feel an itch.
We know others by ourselves, sid the loafer about the lice.
One finger cannot remove lice from the head.
By staying always in the same place one gets lice.
As long as there are lice in the seams of the garment.
Don't look for lice if you're not itching.
To receive a favor is to sell one's liberty.
The narrower the cage, the sweeter the liberty.
A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison.
To place yourself under an obligation is to sell your liberty.
Yuh does give yuh mout too much liberty.
The ground of liberty must be gained by inches.
A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison.
Lean liberty is better than fat slavery.
Who receives a gift sells his liberty.
It is a strange desire to seek power and to lose liberty. (Francis Bacon)
As you teach, you learn.
Even a thief takes ten years to learn his trade.
All things good to know are difficult to learn.
Learn a new language and get a new soul.
Learn good manners from those who don't have them.
If you speak too much, you will learn too little.
It takes two days to learn everything about a man; to know animals you will need more time.
If you learn a lot, you'll age soon.
You know, you teach. You do not know, you learn.
Walk a mile in my moccasins to learn where they pinch.
The only thing we learn from new elections is we learned nothing from the old.
Courteous men learn courtesy from the discourteous.
The farmer is a born philosopher, the aristocrat has to learn how.
Learn to stand up where one falls.
Learn what you want and leave or others.
If I know I will die tomorrow, I can still learn something tonight.
Whoever does not try, does not learn.
First learn, and then form opinions.
People who do not break things first will never learn to create anything.
While the blanket is short, learn to bend.
'tis altogether vain to learn wisdom, and yet live foolishly.
If you wish to learn the highest truth, begin with the alphabet.
I have to learn how to walk on three legs says the hyena for when I am old.
Only when a new government comes to power do you learn to appreciate the values of the old one.
Learn politeness from the impolite.
You are beautiful; but learn to work, for you cannot eat your beauty.
An old cat will never learn to dance.
An old cat will not learn how to dance.
Some will learn through pain and sorrow, others through joy and laughter, so it is written.
If you are ugly, learn how to dance.
You learn a lot about a man by his behavior when hungry.
If you listen to dogs barking, you'll go deaf and never learn much.
No man is so young he cannot teach, or so old he cannot learn.
To get lost is to learn the way.
To teach is also to learn.
From the mouths of babes and drunkards, you will learn the truth.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
He who has learned how to steal, must learn how to hang.
You can learn a lot about someone by observing him when he is hungry.
You always learn a lot more when you lose than when you win.
He who is wise endeavours to learn how to understand the truth not less than that.
Experience is a dear school, but fools learn in no other.
In politics, a man must learn to rise above principle.
If you will learn news, you must go to the oven or the mill.
What you learn to your cost you remember long.
Don't learn too much, Jack, else you must do a great deal.
No one is too old to learn.
You learn to limp if you live with cripples.
Learn to walk before you run.
Even from an enemy a man can learn wisdom.
Old donkeys do not learn languages.
Old horse doesn't learn how to walk.
What johny wont learn, john wont know.
Experience runs a valuable school, but fools learn in no other.
No day in which you learn something is a complete loss.
Live and learn.
A man should learn to sail in all winds.
Wise men learn by other men's mistakes, fools by their own.
An old dog will learn no tricks.
He is like the anchor that is always in the sea, yet does not learn to swim.
We learn by teaching.
Who keeps company with a wolf will learn to howl.
He who wants to talk with the dogs must learn to bark.
Only by falling do you learn how to mount a horse.
Children learn to creep ere they can learn to go.
Wise men learn at another's expense.
Who is smart will learn.
As long as you live, you learn.
With time, even a bear can learn to dance.
Walk in the valley of our ancestors, learn of the history, and marvel at the beauty.
It's vain to learn wisdom yet live foolishly.
Learn to creep before you run.
Learn who are your friends when you are in need.
Learn thou of learned men, th' unlearned of thee; for thus must knowledge propagated be.
Live for a century ? learn for a century.
If you always live with those who are lame, you will yourself learn to limp.
Either learn or leave.
In youth we learn, in old age we understand.
If there are too many teachers or leaders with different ideas, the follower will not do nothing and learn nothing.
Learn to rise up out of the enigmatic egg in the hidden land.
The one who persists in asking question he learn the death of his mother.
Learn about the future by looking at the past.
In sweet converse call the righteous to thy side, learn a healing song while thou livest.
Never too late to learn.
It takes a wise man to learn from his mistakes, but an even wiser man to learn from others.
We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through. Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love... and then we return home.
You learn how to cut down trees cutting them down.
A boy living near a buddhist temple can learn an untaught sutra by heart.
Where there is least heart there is most tongue.
At the wedding-feast the least eater is the bride.
The least and weakest man can do some hurt.
The least boy always carries the biggest fiddle.
If the strong man has nothing else, he can at least command others.
If you don't recognize God, at least know him by his power.
Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional.
Advice is least heeded when most needed.
Least said sooner mended.
He that doth most at once doth least.
Dear physic always does good, if not to the patient, at least to the apothecary.
Asses that bray most eat least.
If you throw a handful of stones, one at least will hit.
Who knows most, knows least.
Who more busy than they who have least to do?
When the sun is highest it casts the least shadow.
The hare starts from where it is least expected.
When one is taking a chicken from its roost, the hen is bound to attack with at least its claws.
At a wedding a bride eats the least.
When we least expect it, the hare darts out of the ditch.
At her wedding, the bride eats the least.
If this ball does not stick to the wall it will at least leave a mark.
The deepest waters make the least noise.
Gratitude is the least of virtues; ingratitude is the worst of vices.
Whatever you teach, be brief; what is quickly said the mind readily receives and faithfully retains, while everything superfluous runs over as from a full container. Who knows much says least.
Who knows most, believes least.
Falling hurts least those who fly low.
Faith is that quality which enables us to believe what we know to be at least far out.
A fool talks most when he has the least to say.
Advice, when most needed, is least heeded.
Every family has at least one black sheep.
Whatever nature does least, man does most.
Advice is least heeded when most needed.
They who love most are least valued.
Whom we love best, to them we can say least.
Idle folks have the least leisure.
Of two evils choose the least.
Wisdom is the least burdensome travelling pack.
Full vessels give the least sound.
Least said soonest mended.
Where the river is deepest it makes the least noise.
Of evils, choose the least.
Where the river is deepest it makes the least noise.
Who knows most says least.
He that eats least, eats most.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, it will at least leave a mark.
They have most bread who have least teeth.
Where we least think, there goeth the hare away.
Of two ills choose the least.
They that smell least, smell best.
Green is the grass of the least trodden field.
He that promises most will perform least.
To fall off a good horse is at least worthwhile.
The foot of a lamp is always the least lit.
Things often happen when you least expect them to. Where we least think, there goes the hare away.
Of evils, the least.
They can do least who boast loudest.
What is permitted us we least desire.
Though last, not least in love.
Love me when I least deserve it, because that is when I need it the most.
Gratitude ranks as the least of virtues, and the lack of gratitude is the worst of vices.
A mistake proves that at least someone stopped talking long enough to do something.
That government is best which governs least.
Last, but not least.
He loses least in a quarrel who keeps his tongue in cheek.
Who knows most believes least.
He that promises most will perform least.
He that knows least commonly presumes most.
Least said, soonest mended.
The son shoots a leopard; the father is proud.
When the leopard is away, his cubs are eaten.
By seeing one spot you know the entire leopard.
A leopard is chasing us, and you are asking me, "Is it a male or a female?"
The leopard that covers its black spots with hamaton dust solution will truly be exposed when the rain season comes.
A leopard cannot change its spots.
When will the goat be strong enough to kill a leopard.
The leopard does not change his spots.
Don't catch a leopard by the tail, but if you do, don't let it go.
The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch.
A leopard is chasing us and do you ask me: ‘is it a male or female?'
Every hill has its leopard.
The son of the leopard scratches like its mother.
The skin of the leopard is beautiful, but not his heart.
Even the small leopard is called leopard.
Though the leopard is fierce, it does not devour its cubs.
The leopard does not eat fish.
Look at a leopard through a pipe.
If you give a handshake to the leopard, next time he will come for an embrace.
The power of a leopard resides in its claws.
The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch.
A leopard is such an elusive animal that it can only be caught by the combined force of a man and his father-in-law.
The leopard cannot change its spots.
A leopard cannot change his spots.
When the leopard is away, his cubs are eaten.
When rain beats on a leopard it wets it, but rain does not wash out its spots.
A stick at the neighbours cannot drive out a leopard at your home.
Even the small leopard is called leopard.
Every hill has its leopard.
A leopard is such an elusive animal.
A leopard cannot change its spots.
Leave evil, it will leave you.
The words of the elders do not lock all the doors, they leave the right door open.
Do not leave your host's house throwing mud in his well.
You arrive mr. Big shot but leave mr. Nobody.
When the angels arrive the demons leave.
When the crocodiles leave, the caymans come.
Leave her now and then if you would really love your wife.
You must decide where you are going in the evening, if you intend to leave early in the morning.
If our feet leave the earth we no longer live in peace.
Words are like spears: once they leave your lips they can never come back.
Flies will never leave the shop of a sweetmaker.
Don't leave for tomorrow what you can do today.
He is an old saint, any may leave it in the hands of God.
Feign death and the bull will leave you.
Let every man mind his own business, and leave others to theirs.
The ass that trespasses on a stranger's premises will leave them laden with wood.
Learn what you want and leave or others.
The winter does not leave without a backward glance.
When you meet a man judge him by his clothes, when you leave a man judge him by his heart.
Don't leave today's work for tomorrow.
If you take big paces you leave big spaces.
When the angels arrive, the devils leave.
Be patient with a bad neighbor. Maybe he'll leave or a disaster will take him out.
Any visitor to the country who drinks from the river bengo will never want to leave.
Do not roast baobab kernels and leave those who have teeth chewing.
Tigers die and leave their skins; people die and leave their names.
If you are eager to be in the shadow, leave your axe at home.
If you are going out for a fight leave your best hat at home.
Tigers die and leave their stripes, but humans die leaving their names.
To truly love your wife, leave her alone every once in a while.
Leave well enough alone.
He must have leave to speak who cannot hold his tongue.
He that dallies with his enemy gives him leave to kill him.
The cat has leave to look at the queen and the queen has leave to shoot it.
Leave the bad tale where you found it.
The man who was dividing Ireland didn't leave himself last.
Sharing the figs can leave you with none at all.
In baiting a mousetrap with cheese, always leave room for the mouse.
There are many ways to leave this world but only one way to come into it.
Pretend to be dead and the bull will leave you alone.
Don't leave the main road for a shortcut.
The rat does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful.
Leave no nail unclenched.
The dying cannot leave their wisdom or experience to their heirs.
It is better not to begin than, having begun, leave unfinished.
When a man finds that he was wrong to have refused to eat, he should leave his anger and play a harp to call for harmony.
If work were good for you, the rich would leave none for the poor.
If you are going into the wood -- don't leave your axe at home.
Leave the spool to the artisan.
Never leave a mate behind.
The magpie cannot leave her hopping.
To leave a place is to die a little.
In a quarrel, leave room for reconciliation.
If this ball does not stick to the wall it will at least leave a mark.
If you sit on a seat, and that seat is a comfortable seat, sit on that seat, and do not leave that seat.
Either learn or leave.
Take only what you need and leave the land as you found it.
They are not dead who live in the hearts they leave behind.
We will be known forever by the tracks we leave.
We will be known by the tracks we leave behind.
Whether it was the tenant who seduced the landlord's wife, or the landlord who seduced the tenant's wife, it is the tenant who would leave the house.
Never leave without your bat'leth.
Do not leave todays homework for tomorrow.
Who has a habit, will never leave it even if his finger gets cut.
Like the cat in the tree, getting caught up in the chase can leave us in an awkward place.
What you can do today do not leave off for tomorrow.
Words are like spears: Once they leave your lips they can never come back.
What you can dead and leave you can live and see or enjoy.
When yuh leave home pon a morning, yuh don't know who gine feed yuh.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, yet 'twill leave some mark.
Leave well alone! You wont improve matters by going on tinkering.
Always leave a little room for a mistake.
Make sure you leave some fat for the other side.
Good deeds never leave home, bad ones echo a thousand miles.
Flowers leave a part of their fragrance in the hands that bestow them.
The best kind of closed door is the one you can leave unlocked.
Choose your lodging before dark and leave before the morning dew.
Leave a bit of the tail to whisk off flies.
The ungrateful son is a wart on his father's face; to leave it is a blemish, to cut it off is pain.
The ungrateful son is like a wart on his father's face; to leave it there is unsightly, to cut it off is painful.
You can leave without a friend but never without a neighbour.
If you want visitors then you leave your front door open.
Even when you dig a soft place, you still leave the garden.
Only a knife can best tell a child when to leave it.
Bad men excuse their faults, good men leave them.
With the old year leave your faults, however dear.
Leave a great talker in the middle of the street.
For a morning rain leave not your journey.
Laws catch flies but lets hornets go free.
He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow.
He who hunts two hares does not catch the one and lets the other escape.
A soldier on furlough lets his shirt hang out of his trousers.
The brave one lives as long as the cowards lets him.
Whoever lets himself be led by the heart will never lose his way.
God lets things go - but only to a point.
If heaven above lets fall a plum, open your mouth.
He who grasps too much lets much fall.
He takes from one ear, and lets it out from the other ear.
A dog in the manger, that neither eats nor lets others eat.
The gardener's dog neither eats greens not lets any one else eat them.
He who does not fart lets out silent ones.
Who cheats is a dog, who lets himself be cheated is an ass.
A man who gets, a bitch who lets.
A man who lets his problems get the better of him is like a man who divorces his wife the first time she makes him angry.
The net of heaven is large and wide, but it lets nothing through.
An open gate lets stock out.
Like the gardener's dog, that neither eats cabbages himself, nor lets anybody else.
Prosperity lets go the bridle.
The eye lets in love.
He is blind that eats his marrow, but far blinder that lets him.
It is a sheep who lets himself sheared.
Who lets a woman slap him is as humiliated as if a pig has bitten.
He that lets his fish escape, may cast his net often yet never catch it again.
The sheik cannot fly, but his disciple lets him fly.
When God wants to please a poor man, He lets him lose his donkey and then helps him find it again.
The spider's web lets the rat escape and catches the fly.
An open gate lets stock out.
God lets man sink but not be drowned.
The trees with most leaves will not necessarily produce juicy fruit.
An ungrateful son is a wart on his father's nose. If he leaves it, it's ugly. If he removes it, it hurts.
When wine comes in, modesty leaves.
A man without a woman is a tree without leaves and branches.
He studies the Bible of fifty-two leaves.
Our time runs on like a stream; first fall the leaves and then the tree.
Nobody leaves this world alive.
Mango among fruits, pork among meats, tea among leaves.
Money is like a guest: it comes today, leaves tomorrow.
Discipline awaits he who leaves his path.
If a man leaves little children behind him, it is as if he did not die.
He who enters Fez with a rug, leaves with a money bag.
As the stone leaves your hand it belongs to the devil.
Not even a God can bring back the leaves that have fallen.
A tiger dies and leaves his skin; a man dies and leaves his name.
As soon as a man leaves his house he has seven enemies.
As soon as stones can swim, leaves will sink.
A child's life is like a piece of paper on which every passerby leaves a mark.
Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground.
Even without drumbeats, the banana leaves dance.
A bad broom leaves a dirty room.
Leaves enough, but few grapes.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit.
A secret is like a dove: when it leaves my hand it takes wing.
Deeds are fruits, words are only leaves.
He who eats and drinks with the rich leaves the table hungry.
A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine.
The bucket goes so often to the well that it leaves its handle there.
Many a one leaves the roast who afterwards longs for the smoke of it.
The pitcher that goes often to the fountain leaves there either its handle or its spout.
The bird leaves no trail.
This basket that leaves and returns unfilled is not nice.
He who leaves and then returns, had a good trip.
He who is afraid of the leaves must not go into the wood.
If the wind does not blow, the leaves do not move.
The clever bird is easily trapped in the leaves at the edges.
A dog which steals leaves its puppies a bad name.
The more shoots, the more leaves.
Though a tree grows ever so high, the falling leaves return to its roots.
Every man leaves his footprints.
The wind effects leaves, while violence men.
The moon lightens well but leaves certain areas in the dark.
The rambling pole-cat leaves its house when there is banquet.
He who hunts two hares leaves one and loses the other.
The skill of using a mortar and pestle never leaves one.
A beautiful flower is incomplete without its leaves.
Do not dress in clothes made of leaves when going to put out a fire.
Fallen leaves return to the root.
No matter how tall the tree is, its leaves will always fall to the ground.
When the big tree falls, the goat eats its leaves.
Truth is like fire it cannot be hidden under dry leaves.
The wise traveler leaves his heart at home.
The hen knows that dawn has arrived but it leaves the duty of crowing to the cock.
The gourd that never leaves the boozing centre attains cracks.
Even the dog leaves the market.
No matter how tall a tree might grow it will always shed its leaves on the ground.
True friends are like diamonds, precious and rare; false ones like autumn leaves, found everywhere.
Having finished the meal, the company leaves.
He that fears leaves must not come into a wood.
He quits his place well that leaves his friend there.
Green leaves and brown leaves fall from the same tree.
Slander leaves a score behind it.
Who leaves a son isn't really dead.
make your hay before the fine weather leaves you.
The one who does not make you happy when he arrives makes you happy when he leaves.
One who walks in another's tracks leaves no footprints.
He that leaves the highway to cut short, commonly goes about.
He that fears leaves, let him not go into the wood.
A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine.
With patience, mulberry leaves become satin.
A herbalist that refuses to ask laymen what leaves he looks for in the bush, must have difficulties getting what he wants.
What keeps its leaves, to the waning moon. What loses its leaves, to the new moon.
He who wins the first hand, leaves with only his pants in hand.
Who leaves the boat on water is miserable.
Who leaves the old way for the new, the trouble not looked for, will be found there.
A wily person does not walk on dry leaves.
Everybody regrets not what he leaves but what he does not find.
To eat much leaves you with a swollen belly.
Words are the leaves of the tree of language, of which, if some fall away, a new succession takes their place.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance.
He who leaves the game, loses.
He is a very bad manager of honey who leaves nothing to lick off his fingers.
Sickness comes in like a horse and leaves like a snail.
Who leaves no traces in the field, will be put to shame at harvest.
The bad barber leaves neither hair nor skin.
The pitcher goes so often to the well, that it leaves its handle or its mouth.
He who leaves his people will be left by God.
To get the lid on the nose.
It's better to be the pot than the lid.
The pot-lid is always badly off: the pot gets all the sweet, the lid nothing but steam.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight.
A mended lid to a cracked pan.
The devil can make a pot but he can't make a lid.
Do not judge a person until the lid of his coffin is closed.
A brother is a cooking pot, and a neighbour is a cooking pot lid.
Every pot will find its lid.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does.
Every pot has a matching lid.
A word out of season may mar a whole lifetime.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
When the father has eaten too much salt in his lifetime, then his son thereafter will have a great thirst.
If youthful pride were wealth, then every man would have had it in his lifetime.
The opportunity of a lifetime is seldom so labeled.
All the honey a bee gathers during its lifetime doesn't sweeten its sting.
A day is long, but a lifetime is short.
Who teaches me for a day is my father for a lifetime.
Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden.
Give me a fish and I will eat today, teach me to fish and I will eat for a lifetime.
You have a lifetime to work, but children are only young once.
Better visit hell in your lifetime than after you're dead.
If you want happiness for an hour, take a nap. If you want happiness for a day, go fishing. If you want happiness for a month, get married. If you want happiness for a year, inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime, help someone else.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap. If you want happiness for a day -- go fishing. If you want happiness for a month -- get married. If you want happiness for a year -- inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime -- help someone else.
If your vision is for a year plant wheat, if you vision is for a decade plant trees, and if your vision is for a lifetime plant people.
The opportunity of a lifetime is seldom so labeled.
Not every thunderclap is followed by lightning.
It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
He that has no fools, knaves, or beggars in his family was begot by a flash of lightning.
He who is struck by the lightning doesn't hear the thunder.
Lightning never strikes the same place twice.
The son of the God of thunder does not die of lightning.
Careless rat chewing on a cat's tail: beware lightning!.
Faster than lightning.
With lightning and with love, the clothes sound, the heart burned.
Whose life is as lightning, his words are as thunder.
Lightning over the Tatras (Nad Tatrou sa blýska) is the national anthem of Slovakia.
He who divides and shares is left with the best share.
Men have three ears: one on the left of the head, one on the right of the head, and one in the heart.
Medicine left in the bottle can't help.
Only the fool points at his origins with his left hand.
When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other.
There is never enough where nought is left.
The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap.
He who shares the meat is always left with the bone.
The important things are left in the locker.
When you chop off a snake's head all you are left with is a piece of rope.
Who got it, did get it; and who left it, did regret it.
The only thing left in the wadi are its stones.
Kick away the ladder and your feet are left dangling.
Allah gives dried beans to eat to him who has no teeth left.
After we fry the fat, we see what is left.
A woman without teeth shall be left to the lions.
Does the left hand chop off the right?
If the left hand battles the right, who wins?
The left hand washes the right and the right washes the left.
When there is a misunderstanding between the left leg and right leg the entire body falls down.
He left us and we rejoiced; then an even more unbearable person came.
How great the grandfathers are, but how regretful what they left behind.
The wolf is upset about what he left behind, and the shepherd is upset about what he took away.
Let not thy right hand know what thy left hand doeth.
Left from there, driven from here.
The one who left, lost his place.
He that keeps another man's dog shall have nothing left him but the line.
He who meddles in others people's affairs will be left with two of three parts.
The right hand is slave to the left.
The wolf is always left out of the reckoning.
The goat that has many owners will be left to die in the sun.
Let not your left hand see what your right hand does.
Roof tiles are positioned to face downwards so that husbands and wives can be left alone.
It is too late to cry "Hold hard!” when the arrow has left the bow.
Having two left hands.
The fathers ate the cranberries and the children are left with the aftertaste.
Nobility without wealth is more worthless than the seaweed which the tide has left.
Do not hesitate or you will be left in between doing something, having something and being nothing.
Old debts are not paid, and new ones are left to get old.
A monkey left behind laughs at the others tail.
The tail of the cow watches to the right and left.
A person will change his mind on something if left to sleep over it.
From gods that are left alone, there is no curse.
If you have only two pennies left in the world, with the first penny, you should buy rice to feed your family. With the second penny, say the wise Japanese, you should buy a lily. The Japanese understand the importance of dreaming...
Virtue is not left to stand alone.
Count not what is lost but what is left.
A child who protested when being stripped on the back by its mother, it's humbled by the scorching sun when left to walk.
Practice with the left hand while the right is still there.
The man who loves to argue is left without friends.
It is better to pay and have a little left than to have much and be always in debt.
Honesty is praised and left to starve.
Industry is fortune's right hand and frugality her left.
To dead men and absent there are no friends left.
Literal meaning: He left the party without having Hommos.
All men have three ears, one on the left of his head, one on the right and one in his heart.
He who throws himself under the bench will be left to lie there.
What is noticed by his eyes, will not be left there by his hands.
The right hand does not know what the left is doing.
When the right hand washes the left hand and the left hand washes the right hand, both hands become clean.
I am dead. It is as if everybody were dead. Let the man left behind shut the door if he wants to.
Who is late will be left without.
Uncollected olives, left at random fill neither the saddle bag nor the little sack.
The child that is left to himself will put his mother to shame.
When you have left a country, you have left everyone.
What's left over from the thief is spent on the fortune-teller.
If everyone were allowed to take from the world all her heart desired, there would be nothing left.
Who serves the mass is thanked by none, but cursed if aught left undone.
The wolf spared the mare, left a tail and mane.
To a good rider, right or left makes no difference.
He who eats a partridge in his youth will only be left with feathers in his old age.
It is better to have bread left over than to run short of wine.
Her left hand doesn't know what her right hand is doing.
He who leaves his people will be left by God.
He who builds a house, or marries, is left with a lank purse.
He hath not a farthing left wherewith to buy a rope to hang himself.
But now I was a rich man, three things have left me bare; dice, wine, and women, these three have made me poor.
Let not your right hand know what your left hand doeth.
You have left the sheep with the wolf for safe custody.
Man is wife's head, eats what she has left.
Even the Priest was a thief when gold was left out.
When there are no trees left, birds will perch on men's heads.
A decent cowboy does not take what belongs to someone else and if he does he deserves to be strung up and left for the flies and coyotes.
The child that is left to himself will put his mother to shame.
The only thing left in the wadi are its stones.
Honesty is praised and left to starve.
War is too important to be left to the generals.
The wolf is upset about what he left behind.
Year after year we long for (what we left behind) the previous year.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant.
Even a sheet of paper is lighter when two people lift it.
Poverty won't allow him to lift up his head; dignity won't allow him to bow it down.
However high you lift the kid goat, you place it gently on the ground.
The seagull thinks it is an act of kindness to give the fish a lift in the air.
The shame you can't lift away, you had better let lie.
Nobody lift the dog's tail when it defecates.
Let lie what is too heavy to lift.
He who is present at a wrongdoing and does not lift a hand to prevent it is guilty.
If you don't lift the skirt of a bride you don't know what she wears under it.
When you lift your hand to strike, you are three-tenths lower than your opponent.
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.
One finger cannot lift a pebble.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant. Spreading the news is also multiplying it.
Many people together lift up the ‘ndiri'.
One finger cannot lift a pebble.
Lift where you stand.
Lift a stone only to drop on your own feet.
The father may well be a horse, but it's most likely that the son will be a mule.
Sparrows who emulate peacocks are likely to break a thigh.
If we don't change our direction we're likely to end up where we're headed.
Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional.
He who stands near the woodcutter is likely to be hit by a splinter.
He who hunts two hares from one bush, is not likely to catch either.
If you talk too much you're likely to give yourself away.
One who thinks that money can do everything is likely to do anything for money.
Unles we change direction, we are likely to wind up where we are headed.
When the apple gets ripe, it's likely to fall.
The more responsibilities a man assumes, the more likely he is to meet them.
He is never likely to have a good thing cheap that is afraid to ask a price.
He is most likely to spill who holds the vessel in his hand.
A ripe pear is more likely to fall in the shit than onto the clean ground.
Often have the likely failed and the unlikely prospered.
Likely lies in the mire, and unlikely goes by it.
The worst is not always certain but it's very likely.
A sheet of paper is lighter if two of you don't try to carry it.
The heavier the purse, the lighter the heart.
Many hands make a workload lighter.
Duty is heavy as a mountain but
Death is lighter than a feather.
What is lighter than a feather? The wind! Lighter than the wind? The spirit! Lighter than the spirit? The woman! Lighter than the woman? Nothing at all!
Nothing weighs lighter than a promise.
Weeping makes the heart grow lighter.
Give assistance, and receive thanks lighter than a feather: injure a man, and his wrath will be like lead.
Duty is weightier than a mountain, while death is lighter than a feather.
What is lighter than a feather? Dust. What lighter than dust? Wind. What lighter than the wind? A harlot. What lighter than a harlot? Nothing.
Declare your line of conduct without reticence.
He that keeps another man's dog shall have nothing left him but the line.
A pestle upon a peg, and a mortar upon a clothes line.
To die in the line of duty is the hope of every klingon.
You can't catch fish on a dry line.
The shortest distance between two points is a straight line.
He steps out of the line.
Hunger goes in a straight line, desire turns in circles.
Nobility follows the man's line at a wedding.
Horace, Of the Art of Poetry, Wentworth Dillon's trans, line 212. (19 BC)
There is a thin line between love and hate.
Walk in line like the poor house's pigs 'though there was only one.
You can't catch fish on a dry line.
If a scribe knows only a single line but his handwriting is good, he is indeed a scribe!
He that keeps another man's dog shall have nothing left him but the line.
If you've seeded before a heavy rain, one out of one hundred of your plants will be out of line.
"It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare, but because we do not dare, things are difficult." (Seneca, Letter to Lucilius, letter 104, section 26, line 5)
If God breaks your leg, he will teach you how to limp.
You learn to limp if you live with cripples.
Men do not limp while their legs are the same length.
If you always live with those who are lame, you will yourself learn to limp.
Don't limp before yuh lame.
The best fish hook cannot catch limp cheese.
The person who lives with cripples will soon learn to limp.
Where all limp, everybody thinks he walks straight.
Never limp before the lame.
Live near a lame man, and you will soon learn to limp.
A man would not lick what he spit.
Before you let your voice be heard, first lick your lips.
If your friend is honey, don't lick it all.
If your friend is like honey, don't lick all of it.
He who touches honey is compelled to lick his fingers.
A termite can do nothing to a stone save lick it.
If your friend is honey, don't lick him thoroughly.
If you have honey, don't lick the pot clean.
If you want to know how long a man's tongue is, let him use his mouth to lick honey from a plate.
He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
Marriage is a lick of honey and a barrel of bitter.
Play wid puppy, puppy lick yu mouth.
He buys honey dear who has to lick it off thorns.
Many lick before they bite.
He who feeds the child must be allowed to lick his fingers.
If you can't lick 'em, join 'em.
Ye're like the miller's dog--ye lick your lips ere the pock be opened.
Flatters, like cats, lick and then scratch.
Who wouldn't lick his fingers when they have been dipped in honey?
Even on old goat likes to lick salt.
Lick upwards, kick downwards.
Ye breed of the Millers dog, ye lick your lips ere the poke be open.
Who does not eat till he is full, won't lick himself satisfied.
He is a very bad manager of honey who leaves nothing to lick off his fingers.
The cornered rat will lick the balls of the cat.
A cow gave birth to a fire; she wanted to lick it, but it burned; she wanted to leave it, but she could not because it was her own child.
Yer play with puppy, him lick you mouth.
He who can lick can bite.
He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
Honey is sweet, but don't lick it off a briar.
He who can lick can bite.
A moth will eat the finest linen.
Choose neither a woman nor linen by candlelight.
The coldness of a friend and the coldness of linen - they never lasted long.
Dirt is dirtiest upon clean white linen.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
Fine linen often conceals scabby skin.
Neither women nor linen by candlelight.
Even you are not better than the linen of Deak's wife.
He hangs out the dirty linen, to the public.
Foul linen should be washed at home.
It is at home, not in public, that one washes his dirty linen.
Never choose your women or linen by candlelight.
One does not wash one's dirty linen in public.
Choose neither a woman nor linen by candlelight.
Never choose your women or linen by candlelight.
One does not wash one's dirty linen in public.
Never choose your women or your linen by candlelight.
A horse has four legs, yet it often falls.
Lies legs are short.
Wriggling hands like young bride's legs.
The hare that escaped had eight legs.
Wealth can give legs to the cripple, beauty to the ugly, and sympathy to tears.
A Horse has four legs, but still stumbles.
I have to learn how to walk on three legs says the hyena for when I am old.
Stretch your legs as far as your quilt goes.
Stretch your legs the length of your bed.
Money has no ears but it hears; no legs but it walks.
A donkey has two friends: his two hind legs.
A lie has no legs, but a scandal has wings.
He that has good legs, has often bad boots.
Both legs in the stocks or only one, 'tis all the same.
Irishwomen have a dispensation from the pope to wear the thick ends of their legs downwards.
A hound's food is in its legs.
A lie has no legs.
Where the body wants to rest, there the legs must carry it.
When the will is prompt the legs are nimble.
Who has no head should have legs.
Who has no courage must have legs.
When the head does not work, the legs suffer.
Where the heart loves, there the legs walk.
Strong legs are needed to carry good days.
Men do not limp while their legs are the same length.
There's a man who looks like a partridge with legs like a mosquito.
Stretch your legs no farther than your coverlet.
A baby is an angel whose wings decrease as his legs increase.
By persevering the egg walks on legs.
Flies' legs, like the tongue of critics, land on whatever they find.
We do not walk on our legs, but on our will.
We rest our legs, but never our mouths.
An aimless wanderer wears away his legs.
A new fowl always has string around its legs.
Add legs to the snake one has just painted.
Add legs to the snake after you have finished drawing it.
Exaggeration is to paint a snake and add legs.
We rest our legs, but never our mouths.
The success of a man is through the soles of his feet, that of a woman is from her legs.
When a stiff-necked bull stands with its four legs planted firmly and refuses to move, you cannot make it go ahead only by pulling it by the reins and using your whip.
Talk the hind legs off a donkey.
A hound's food is in its legs.
A lie has short legs.
He that has long legs will go far.
Sparrows should not dance with cranes, their legs are too short.
Better walk on wooden legs, than be carried on a wooden bier.
Let a dog get at a dish of honey, and he will jump in with both legs.
We do not walk on our legs, but on our will.
Peacock, look at your legs.
Stretch your legs according to your coverlet.
A lie has short legs.
Every one stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet.
Let the guts be full, for it is they that carry the legs.
There goes more to marriage than four bare legs in a bed.
Lies have short legs.
Break the legs of an evil custom.
The horse has four legs, still the stumbles.
A horse may stumble that has four legs.
He who has long fingers should also have long legs.
Bad legs and ill wives should stay at hame.
The whip hits at the legs, not the guilt.
Someone else's legs are no good to you when you're travelling.
Lies have short legs.
Two smells of cooking meat break the hyena's legs.
It has stuck fast by one of the front legs.
Seat the pig at the table - she'll put [her] legs on the table.
Every sheep will be hanged from its own legs.
Every one stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet.
Many asses have only two legs.
Every one stretcheth his legs according to his coverlet.
The bad head does not give rest to the legs, and the cunning ass does not give rest to the legs, arms, or head.
You can't make a hockey team without breaking a few legs.
A fool may have no sense but he has legs.
A lie has short legs.
Only a fool will use both his legs to test how deep a spring is.
On his last legs.
The belly carries legs.
Stretch your legs according to the coverlet.
Break the legs of an evil custom.
A horse stumbles that has four legs.
Lies have short legs.
For a young man contemplating marriage: That you might have nicer legs than your own under your table before the new spuds are up.
Coming back with arms longer than legs.
Lies have short legs.
Who has not understanding, let him have legs.
Everyone stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet.
What one's head lacks one has to have in one's legs.
Lie has short legs.
A liar should have a good memory.
You can keep away from the rogue, but you cannot keep yourself safe from the liar.
A miser and a liar bargain quickly.
A lie has no author, nor a liar a conscience.
Believe the liar up to the door of his house and no further than that.
Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
You can lock your door from a thief, but not from a damned liar.
The way of a liar is short.
A liar is forgetful.
A good speaker makes a good liar.
One witness one liar; more witnesses, all liars.
It's easier to catch a liar than a limping person.
The liar will travel the world over, but chooses not to go back home.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth.
He who swears is a liar.
A great liar has need of good memory.
Believe a boaster as you would a liar.
They say, is a liar.
A liar ought to have a good memory.
A liar must have a good memory.
A great talker is a great liar.
A liar can go round the world but cannot come back.
Listening to a liar is like drinking warm water.
They say is often a great liar.
Today is today who says tommorrow is a liar.
God does not concell a liar.
Follow the liar right to his door.
It's better to live with a dumb person than a liar.
You can shut the door on a thief, but you can do nothing about a liar.
The man who flatters you is a liar: the greater the flattery, the bigger the liar.
Thieves hunt in couples, but a liar has no accomplice.
You may shut your doors against a thief, but not against a liar.
Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief.
A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.
A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.
The liar is not believed when he speaks the truth.
A liar is not believed even if he tells the truth.
Boastin' man brudder a de liar.
Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief.
A liar should have a good memory.
Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief.
The liar is sooner caught than the cripple.
The liar will only be trusted once.
It's a good thing for a liar to have a good memory.
God does not hide a liar.
Thieves hunt in couples, but a liar has no accomplice.
You can shut the door on a thief, but you can do nothing about a liar.
Avoid the company of a liar.
A liar is forgetful.
The liar is caught sooner than a lame dog...A hazug embert hamarabb utolérik, mint a sánta kutyát.
The liar is quarrelsome. He always lies. He always slanders. Treacherous! Malicious! Shifty-eyed!
Ask my comrade, who is as great a liar as myself.
Between the hand and the lip the soup may be spilt.
Though the mastiff be gentle, yet bite him not by the lip.
Lip courtesy pleases much and costs little.
Keep a stiff upper lip.
There is many a slip ‘twixt cup and lip.
Though your mastiff be gentle, do not bite his lip.
Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip.
‘Twixt the spoon and the lip, the morsel may slip.
Twixt the cup and the lip there's many a slip.
Though your bloodhound be gentle, don't bite him on the lip.
If a man wants to grow a long tooth, he should have the lip to cover it.
Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip.
Lip courtesy avails much and costs little.
A chain is as strong as its weakest link.
Break one link and the whole chain falls apart.
One link broken, the whole chain is broken.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
If a link is broken, the whole chain breaks.
If one link has broken so has the whole chain.
Link by link the coat of mail is made.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
External link to Wikipedia page on Costa Rica for further reading.
The chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
We have two ears and one mouth that we may listen the more and talk the less.
More haste, less speed.
Of two evils, it is always best to vote for the less hypocritical.
A sword in the hands of a drunken slave is less dangerous than science in the hands of the immoral.
The less you know, the more soundly you sleep.
Compare your grieves with other men's and they will seem less.
Compare your griefs with those of other men and they will seem less.
Eyes that don't see have less to lament.
The more one looks, the less one sees.
The more you know, the less you need.
With tender words you have less luck with a woman than with jewels.
A rich man who does not know himself is worth less than a poor man who does.
He who is wise endeavours to learn how to understand the truth not less than that.
Men seek less to be instructed than applauded.
It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand.
If words could only speak, they'd mean even less.
The sky is not the less blue because the blind man does not see it.
The air is no less blue because the blind man doesn't see it.
Appear always what you are and a little less.
All the wool is hair, more or less.
An estate inherited is the less valued.
From evil, the less.
Think much, speak little and write less.
Of two evils choose the less.
A wound foreseen paint the less.
Every one gives himself credit for more brains than he has, and less money.
I will do what I can, and a little less, to be able to continue at it.
The owl is the wisest of all birds because the more it sees, the less it talks.
The less you know, the less you forget.
Believe half what's recounted, the less you believe, the better you'll do.
A man overboard, a mouth less to feed.
The less said the sooner mended.
The less wit a man has, the less he knows that he wants it.
The more you know the less will you sleep.
He that considers in prosperity; will be less afflicted in adversity.
It matters less to a person where they are born than where they can live.
All griefs with bread are less.
I am less concerned about them than about the croaking frogs in the marsh.
The beautiful is less what one sees than what one dreams.
A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear.
One who is free to sin, sins less; the very power weakens the seeds of sin.
Six men give a doctor less to do than one woman.
The less people think the more they talk.
The tighter you squeeze, the less you have.
The less power a man has, the more he likes to use it.
To extend your life by a year, take one less bite each meal.
A hundred "no's" are less painful than one insincere "yes."
The less we know, the more we suspect.
Company in distress makes trouble less.
Less advice and more hands.
Less said, more done.
The more arguments you win, the less friends you will have.
Old chains gall less than new.
He who only thinks about what is in his belly is worth less than what comes out of it.
If you reach for the highest of ideals, you shouldn't settle for less than the stars.
The nobler the blood, the less the pride.
The more shepherds, the less care.
The more by law, the less by right.
Two in distress makes sorrow the less.
The more laws the less justice.
Eat less, live longer.
Less advice and more hands.
The diamond fallen into the dunghill is not the less precious for it.
More haste, less speed.
A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear.
Fat head, less brains.
Fear less, hope more,
Whine less, breathe more,
Talk less, say more,
Hate less, love more,
And all good things are yours.
Give a servant a proper meal and the cow will give more milk and the cat will drink less.
Ten tongues that spread the word are worth less than two eyes that have seen, and two eyes that have seen are worth less than one hand that feels.
Bare is the back of a brother less man.
Ten thousand of the greatest faults in our neighbours is of less consequence than the smallest of our own.
The bigger the chance, the less the security.
The less things change, the more they remain the same.
The more you know the less you believe.
Nobility is less esteemed when it lacks wealth.
Our wisdom is no less at Fortune's mercy than our wealth.
Company in distress makes trouble less.
The less one thinks, the more one speaks.
Rage avails less than courage.
The beautiful is less what one sees than what one dreams.
The place of your birth is less important than how you live.
Where you were born is less important than how you live.
In less than a thousand years we shall all be bald.
Everyone is worth more than his neighbor and less than his son.
What is not understood by what is less understood.
Less of your courtesy, and more of your purse.
The more honesty a man has the less he affects the air of a saint.
Less is more.
Listening well is as powerful as talking well, and is also as essential to true conversation.
A story without an author is not worth listening to.
From listening comes wisdom, and from speaking repentance.
When you're speaking about the trolls, they're standing in the entrance hall listening.
Of listening children have your fears, for little pitchers have great ears.
Listening looks easy, but it's not that simple. Every head is a world.
Listening to a liar is like drinking warm water.
There is more wisdom in listening than in speaking.
We learn by watching and listening.
It is from listening to old men that you learn wisdom.
Good listening does not mean sitting dumb.
Dance as if no one were watching. Sing as if no one were listening. And live every day as if it were your last.
If you don't have money, you're not worth listening to.
If speaking is silver, then listening is gold.
From listening comes wisdom and from speaking, repentance.
Literal meaning: The people's lord is their servant.
Literal meaning: The sultan's sword is long.
Literal meaning: The gauge has overflown.
Literal meaning: Give me long life and throw me in the sea.
Literal meaning: The fisherman is the shark's friend.
Literal meaning: The friend in tight times.
Literal meaning: Cooking fat on honey.
Literal meaning: He left the party without having Hommos.
Literal meaning: Give the dough to baker even if he eats half of it.
Literal tranlation: A lot of noise, little wool.
He who is bitten by a snake fears a lizard.
A lizard can't be a snake even without its limbs.
Better be the head of a lizard than the tail of a dragon.
He who has been stung by a serpent is afraid of a lizard.
A lounging lizard catches no crickets.
A lizard that fell from the top of a tree wastes its time looking back to where it fell from; if there was anything good the lizard deserved, it could not have missed it while it was there on top of the tree.
The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree said he would praise himself if no one else did.
If the lizard were good to eat, it would not be so common.
The lizard would like to stand erect, but his tail will not permit him.
The smaller the lizard the greater the hope of becoming a crocodile.
The house rat who goes swimming with his friend the lizard will die from cold.
No matter how much you feed a lizard it cannot become a crocodile.
Whom a serpent has bitten a lizard alarms.
If you decide to dress up a lizard you should count for its tail.
It is difficult to throw a stone at a lizard which is clinging to a pot.
A lizard on a cushion will still seek leaves.
Lizard no plant corn but him hab plenty.
The lizard that lives high up in iroko tree does not hear the lions roar.
When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other.
He who was born for a small loaf, will never own a big one.
A half loaf is better than no bread.
Do not yell "dinner” until your knife is in the loaf.
The crust is part of the loaf.
Give a loaf, and beg a shive.
Do not steal a loaf from him that kneads and bakes.
Go in God's name, for he takes a loaf of mine.
Saying that it's for her child, she gets herself a loaf of bread.
You never miss a slice from a cut loaf.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Half a loaf is better than none.
Better half a loaf than none at all.
Stone to stone – palace, grain to grain – loaf of bread.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Grain by grain, a loaf; stone by stone, a castle.
Just because a loan is old, that does not make it a gift.
A loan, though old, is not a gift.
Better the certainty of the straddle than the mere loan of a saddle.
To loan is to buy troubles.
Who wants to makes his friend his enemy should loan him some money.
An old loan repaid is like finding something new.
One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in debt to those who are kind.
Kindness is more binding than a loan.
If you want to keep friends don't loan them any money.
All earthly goods we have only on loan.
A loan long continued usually confers ownership.
A loan is a brother when taken, a nephew when paid back.
If you give the loan of your britches, don't cut off the buttons.
A crowd is like a smoldering log which can spark into a flame at any time.
No matter how long a log floats on the river, it will never be a crocodile.
Even if a log lies in the water for a long time, it does not become a crocodile.
Jump over a log but not over your neighbor's word.
Keep the best log for may.
In other persons' eye one can see a mote, in one's own – cannot see a log.
A big log is a shame to the fire, an evil person is a shame to the house.
A single log of wood does not burn even in an oven.
A log can not move save by the help of rollers.
One log does not burn long by itself.
The best of all worlds: A sunny Christmas and a log fire on Easter.
A big log is a shame to the fire, an evil person is a shame to the house.
A small log will overthrow a big cart.
Even a log soaked in water will burn if it is placed near a fire.
The key that opens is also the key that locks.
Locks keep out only the honest.
Money is the key that opens all locks.
Locks can not be made from good iron, soldiers are not made out of good people.
A smooth tongue is better than smooth locks.
You surround your vineyard with thorns - place doors and locks on your mouth.
Morn with her rosy locks dispels the shades of night, and the sun puts to flight the stars, lighting up the world.
Tongue has two locks, lips and teeth.
The key that unlocks is also the key that locks. Honor a child, and he will honor you.
Words are like spears: once they leave your lips they can never come back.
A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return.
Before you let your voice be heard, first lick your lips.
Only men with thick lips should smoke a cigar.
A fool's lips bring him strife and invite a beating.
An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
If your mouth were a knife, it would cut off your lips.
What comes from the lips reaches the ears, what comes from the heart reaches the heart.
What the sober man has in his heart, the drunkard has on his lips.
Who lends his lips to nought but blame, has in his heart no love of fame.
Like lips, like lettuce.
He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life; but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.
He has the Bible on his lips, but not in his heart.
The strength of the elderly is in the ears and on the lips.
Of runes they spoke, and the reading of runes was little withheld from their lips.
Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum.
Words are like spears: Once they leave your lips they can never come back.
If the lips are gone, the teeth will grow cold.
He who guards his lips, guards his life.
Sometimes the face can tell what the lips can't say.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
Ye're like the miller's dog--ye lick your lips ere the pock be opened.
The poison of asps is under their lips.
Too hasty burned his lips.
Scald not your lips in another man's pottage.
Don't scald your lips on another's soup.
Ye breed of the Millers dog, ye lick your lips ere the poke be open.
Flog my erring child comes from the lips, "don't hurt him/her" comes from the bottom of the heart.
You can't say "prruci” without lips.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
He moistens the lips, but leaves the palate dry.
He who entered Elam -- his lips are sealed.
He who has to live in Elam -- his life is not good.
Tongue has two locks, lips and teeth.
[I'd like to] drink honey with your lips.
Do you say something or is the wind wiggling your lips?
Behind every mountain lies a valley.
There are such things as false truths and honest lies.
He who tells no lies will not grow up.
The best part of happiness lies is in the secret heart of a lover.
Love truth even if it harms you, and hate lies even if they serve you.
Truth came to market but could not be sold; however, we buy lies with ready cash.
The white man lives in the castle; when he dies, he lies in the ground.
Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no lies.
Death is a camel that lies down at every door.
Lies are short-lived.
The wise man's wealth lies in good deeds that follow ever after him.
Under a ragged coat lies wisdom.
Borrowed bread lies heavy on the stomach.
Common fame seldom lies.
Beware, the enemy lies under your blanket.
The best of hunters lies more than he hunts.
If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself.
May no lies be spoken against me in the presence of God.
Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
It is the one who lies by a fire who feels the heat.
Lies that build are better than truths that destroy.
Even if a log lies in the water for a long time, it does not become a crocodile.
Except for my father and my mother everybody lies.
The character of a man lies not in his body but in his soul.
Darkness lies one inch ahead.
The matchmaker always asks for too much money for his eight hundred lies.
I'd rather have them say "There he goes" than "Here he lies."
A man may woo where he will, but he will wed where his luck lies.
Ask no questions and hear no lies.
Lies are the plague of speech.
He who foretells the future lies, even if he tells the truth.
Truth's cloak is often lined with lies.
He who lies on the ground must expect to be trodden on.
He who prates much lies much.
A proverb never lies; it is only its meaning which deceives.
It's the deaf people that create the lies.
True strength lies in gentleness.
He who lies, hangs from a gallows - he who does not, hangs twice.
Who lies for you will lie against you.
One who lies for you will also lie against you.
Big walks, big lies.
He who lies once is never believed again.
The cheat always lies at the feet of the cheated.
Good blood never lies.
Seldom lies the dell dead by the dyke side.
Lies never pay the toll.
Behind the gentle barb lies the deadly barb.
He that lies on the floor doesn't fall down.
The coat of truth is often lined with lies.
In war, lies are as abundant as dirt.
Who steals that also lies.
There are many lies but barely one truth.
He who lies thrice believes he's told the truth.
The strength of a tree lies in its roots - not in its branches.
He that hears much, hears many lies.
Hearsay is half lies.
If you hear a lot of things, you will hear a lot of lies.
An old man telling lies is like a rich man stealing.
There is no shame in not knowing; the shame lies in not finding out.
With lies you may go ahead in the world--but you can never go back.
The truth is bitter and lies are sweet.
Lies are usually caused by undue fear of men.
The head only knows what lies nearest the heart.
Lies have short legs.
If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked.
The heart of the wise man lies quiet like limpid water.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
It is easy to die - the difficulty lies in living.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
Where the cattle stand together, the lion lies down hungry.
The life of a groundnut lies between two shells.
You cannot avoid what lies in ambush for you.
Even a healer's lies are a big relief to a sick person.
All the art lies in making the best of a bad market.
The road to the head lies through the heart.
What "they say" is half lies.
The key to all action lies in belief.
The beauty of things lies in the mind that contemplates it.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
Excuses are always mixed with lies.
He who lies for you will lie about you.
Lies are accepted once, not twice.
He who speaks about the future lies, even when he tells the truth.
Judge not of a ship as she lies on the stocks.
If lies were Latin, there would be many learned men.
He who lies down in the wash will be eaten by swine.
The millstone that lies undermost also helps to grind.
If lies are to find credence, they must be patched with truth.
Crooked load will not get to the destination.
Words in mouth, no load upon head.
Walk your own road and bear your own load.
The elephant's head is no load for a child.
Knowledge without wisdom is a load of books on the back of an ass.
A heavy load should be borne together as well as a light load.
A tilted load won't reach its destination.
They laugh at you when your going but when you came back with a load they're a shamed.
Handfuls make up a load.
A man who walks alone carries a load of palm-fronds.
While travelling, the load settles in place.
Skill is not a heavy load to carry.
Conversation shortens the distance, singing lightens the load.
Fifty lemons are a load for one person, but for fifty persons they are perfume.
Better a donkey that tarries than one that won't carry its load.
Your companion's burden is a load of kapok.
It takes little effort to watch a man carry a load.
Account by the dinar, give charity by the ass load.
Small tuft often overturns a big load.
If the load is too heavy for someone to carry, one would be better off to give the load to the ground to carry.
The weight of years is the heaviest load.
Put a heavy load on an old donkey.
Nobody grumbles while carrying a load, but when he has laid it down.
I stubborn and you stubborn, who is to carry the load?
It is not the load but the overload that kills.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
All lay load on the willing horse.
To carry his load without resting, not to be bothered by heat or cold and always be content these three things we can learn from a donkey.
Half-carried – a well-built load.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
The ostrich was asked to carry a load, it said. I'm a bird. It was asked to fly, it said, I'm a camel.
When life hands you lemons, make lemonade.
Life is like perpetual drunkenness, the pleasure passes but the headache remains.
Life is too short to do stupid things.
The secret of life is not to do what you like, but to like what you do.
Life is -- not separate from death.
As long as there's life, there is hope.
Living life is not like just crossing a field.
Without life there is nothing.
Life is short and time is swift.
Bury me on my feet, I have spent my entire life on my knees.
A gypsy only tells the truth once in his life but he regrets it afterwards.
Life is a shadow and a mist; it passes quickly by, and is no more.
Those who are at one regarding food are at one in life.
However big the whale may be, the tiny harpoon can rob him of life.
Life is like a ballet performance - danced only once.
To be drunk every day is also a regular life.
Life is a ladder -- some will climb up it, others down.
One sip of wine is an antidote against death, cupfuls poison life.
Life is a bridge. Cross over it, but build no house on it.
Life is like the flame of a lamp; it needs a little oil now and then.
Those who have saved one life have saved the entire world.
The highest art is the art of living an ordinary life in an extraordinary manner.
Life is the biggest bargain. We get it for nothing.
Man's life is like a drop of dew on a lea£.
Children who get everything they ask for seldom succeed in life.
It is advantageous to follow advice, for you will succeed in life.
Where life is exhausted, death comes.
Life is a temporary stop, death is the journey home.
Cowardice will not prolong life.
Death is the bride of life.
Life is short, but there's a lot to be done.
Life is short; but it barely takes a second to smile.
How gently glides the married life away, When she who rules still seems but to obey.
There's no life so tiring as one of doing nothing.
No fate is worse than a life without a love.
May your life be like a wildflower, growing freely in the beauty and joy of each day.
The life of a guest is seven days.
The child who is given everything he asks for usually won't succeed in life.
Those who are in the following of the prince of everlastingness and God of life, sing with joy.
Few desires, happy life.
A beautiful person might not have a beautiful life.
Better to lose a minute in your life than your life in a minute.
Days are many, what is one is life.
Consider each day of your life to be the best.
My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
Life is for one generation; a good name is forever.
Life without endeavor is like entering a jewel-mine and coming out with empty hands.
Life is the source of all things.
He who wants what God wants of him will lead a free and happy life.
Life is a long journey with a heavy bag on its back.
Even when months and days are long, life is short.
It is precisely the uncertainty of this world that makes life worth living.
Life? That is a candle in the wind; frost upon a roof; the twitching of the fish in a pan.
A child's life is like a piece of paper on which every passerby leaves a mark.
He who thinks too much about every step he takes will stay on one leg all his life.
A smile will gain you ten more years of life.
To have saved one human life is worth more than to build a paGoda with seven stories.
Flourish like a flower, but may your life be longer.
To neglect one's ancestors would bring ill-fortune and failure in life.
The miserly man is like a fattened ox: he will give of his fat only when he has been deprived of his life.
There are many colourful flowers on the path of life, but the prettiest have the sharpest thorns.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live you life in a manner so that when you die the world cries and you rejoice.
Best things in life are free.
Life begins at forty.
Bread is the staff of life, but beer's life itself.
A cheerful wife is a joy of life.
Always to court and never to wed is the happiest life that ever was led.
If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.
Life is a dogma and a fight for the dogma.
Life will show you what you did not know.
How tight can life be without the space of hope.
Your lord's rent or your child's life.
As you slide down the banister of life, may the splinters never point the wrong way.
It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead the rest of your life.
One word spoken in anger may spoil an entire life.
There are four things in this life of which we have more than we think: faults, debts, years and enemies.
While there's life, there's hope.
A contented ass enjoys a long life.
A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.
Friends are flowers in the garden of life.
Better to be queen for an hour than a countess for life.
Where there is life there is hope.
A dead man's will is the mirror of his life.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice.
Life is not a continuum of pleasant choices, but of inevitable problems that call for strength, determination, and hard work.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
Nonviolence is the supreme law of life.
He is master of another man's life who is indifferent to his own.
Borrowed clothes are either too tight or too loose.
There is a loose stitch with him.
A statement once let loose cannot be caught by four horses.
It is the fool's sheep that break loose twice.
Loose lips sink ships.
Remember even if you loose all, keep your good name for if you loose that you are worthless.
If you snooze, you loose.
A loose tooth will not rest until it's pulled out.
Don't let the falcon loose until you see the hare.
Better hand loose than in an ill tethering.
The carpenter's door is loose.
You will know what something is really worth, when you loose it forever.
Loose tongues are worse than wicked hands.
Hell has been broken loose.
Girne when you knit, and laugh when ye loose.
Want all, loose all.
Loose words are picked up like gold coin.
A loose tooth will not rest until it's pulled out.
A half-truth is a whole lie.
A lie can annihilate a thousand truths.
A dressed up lie is worth more than a badly told truth.
A lie can be halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on.
A lie has many variations, the truth none.
An escaped lie does not reach the truth.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
The end of an ox is beef, and the end of a lie is grief.
Nobody knows the mysteries which lie at the bottom of the ocean..
A good lie finds more believers than a bad truth.
A lie travels farther than the truth.
When the bed breaks, there is the ground to lie on.
A lie has no author, nor a liar a conscience.
It is better to sit down than to stand, it is better to lie down than to sit, but death is the best of all.
Only the hunchback himself knows how he can lie comfortably.
A lie is like a jump from a high roof.
If you lie on the ground, you cannot fall.
Truth is the safest lie.
If you want to know who your friends are, lie by the roadside and pretend to be drunk.
Tell a lie and the truth will come to light.
Lie, but don't overdo it.
A lie runs until it is overtaken by the truth.
The bowman who is a bad marksman has a lie ready.
Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
One lie can fill a sack; a second will empty it again.
If you lie down with dogs, you will get up with fleas.
If you lie upon roses when young, you will lie upon thorns when old.
If you lie down with a man, you may rise up as a woman.
You canot know the bugs of a bed that you have not lain on.
A lie has no legs, but scandalous wings.
It's better to lie a little than to be unhappy.
It may take a lot of time to fabricate a lie but the truth only takes seconds to elevate.
Those who know how to praise also know how to lie.
If three people tell you that you are drunk, you better lie down.
It is better to be lied about than to lie.
The truth is better than a lie.
It takes two to lie, one to lie and one to listen.
A lie has no legs, but a scandal has wings.
As you make your bed, so you must lie in it.
The rope of a lie is short.
Two may lie so as to hang a third.
An old lie is often more popular than a new truth.
There's no putting off a lie upon the belly.
As a tree falls, so shall it lie.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Truth that is poorly timed is as bad as a lie.
If you lie down with dogs you'll rise with fleas.
A lie has no legs.
Who lies for you will lie against you.
One who lies for you will also lie against you.
Tell your friends a lie; if he keeps it secret tell him the truth.
He who serves two masters has to lie to one.
Better lie than gossip.
One lie draw ten after it.
He may lie safely who comes from afar.
A little truth helps the lie go down.
A little truth makes the whole lie pass.
A traveler may lie with authority.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
He who serves two masters must lie to one of them.
One lie makes many.
As one makes his bed, that way he shall lie down.
Better a lie that soothes than a truth that hurts.
There were once three brothers: a lie, theft and the gallows.
He would even lie, there is no star in the sky.
As the tree falls, it will lie.
Only what you have in your hand is not a lie.
The hunter does not rub himself in oil and lie by the fire to sleep.
A mirror doesn't know how to lie.
A blushing lie is better than the pale truth.
The shame you can't lift away, you had better let lie.
Who bites with a lie will swallow with pain.
An honest man would rather sell his land than tell a lie.
A half-truth is a whole lie.
The heart does not lie.
He may lie boldly who comes from afar.
Each person knows where problems lie.
Give me a seat, and I will make myself room to lie down.
Truth is violated by a lie or by silence.
In this treacherous world there is neither truth nor lie; everything is like the color of the crystal through which you gaze.
Lose your temper and you lose a friend; lie and you lose yourself.
A lie doesn't have a foot to stand on.
When in doubt, lie.
The hunter does not lie down with the prey.
A child's lie is like a dead fish in a pond that in the end, always comes to the surface, explains his mother.
To lie about a far country is easy.
The man who claims to be the boss in his own home will lie about other things as well.
Truth has but one color, a lie has many.
God gives but does not lock the gate.
Lock your door rather than suspect your neighbor.
The words of the elders do not lock all the doors, they leave the right door open.
You can lock your door from a thief, but not from a damned liar.
Two rams cannot drink from the same bucket at the same time; they will lock horns.
You may lock up the cock, but the sun will still rise.
He is miserable indeed that must lock up his miseries.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the horses have already been stolen.
Thou shalt never sleep in the arms of a sorceress, lest she should lock thy limbs.
Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen.
Lock your door and keep your neighbours honest.
Trust in god but lock your car.
A lock is better than suspicion.
Don't lock the stable door after the horse is stolen.
A lock is better than suspicion.
A lock is meant only for honest men.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
No lock avails against a hatchet.
There is no lock, if the pick is of gold.
The teeth of a dog do not lock together.
Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen.
It is too late to lock the stable when the horse has been stolen.
No lock will hold against the power of gold.
When the steed's stown lock the stable door.
To be without knowledge is to be without light.
Don't curse the darkness, light a candle.
Light a candle for God and another for the devil.
Many hands make light work.
Whoever has no children has no light in his eyes.
Acquaintance without patience is like a candle with no light.
Over truth there is light.
We can only speak the truth when we turn off the light.
The darkness of night cannot stop the light of morning.
The light heart lives long.
There is light at the end of the tunnel.
The bull that is used to the sun shivers by the light of the moon.
An oil lamp feels proud to give light even though it wears itself away.
Tell a lie and the truth will come to light.
Let there be light.
You may light another's candle with your own without loss.
Protect the flame of your candle and it will light more.
Cover your candle, it will light more.
One lamp can't light two houses.
Not even the lord of light can turn back time, or undo what has been done.
If you are in hiding, don't light a fire.
A heavy load should be borne together as well as a light load.
Don't hide your light under a bushel.
Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark.
Many hands make light work.
Truth will come to light.
A light burden's heavy if far borne.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
Light is light, though the blind man see it not.
Put the light out, and all women are alike.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
When thieves fall out, their knaveries come to light.
From dissension, the light is born.
The light is painful to sore eyes.
Flies don't light on a boiling pot.
He gets green light.
Di daakes' part a di night, a when diay soon light.
When christ disappears, light goes out.
Patience makes all hardships light.
That grief is light which is capable of counsel.
If you call a piece of wood ‘child', you can never use it to light fire since it has become so precious.
The wicked shun the light as the devil does the cross.
Little things attract light minds.
Heavy purses and light hearts can sustain much.
Love makes labor light.
Sooner or later the truth comes to light.
There is more light than can be seen through the window.
A white day sheds light, and a black day sheds darkness.
Light is half a companion.
In an instant illumination can be achieved, it is as easy as turning on a light, the problem is finding the switch in the dark.
A friend works in the light of the sun, an enemy in the dark.
Grief is light that is capable of counsel.
When the will is ready the feet are light.
Don't let the windows of your home be so small that the light of the sun cannot enter your rooms.
Though the blind man cannot see it, light remains light.
A governor may commit arson while the governed are not allowed to light a lamp.
To scrape the light off one's face.
Only the man who crosses the river at night knows the value of the light of day.
One's shadow grows larger than life when admired by the light of the moon.
Truth and morning become light with time.
The laughter of a child is the light of a house.
The light of a thousand stars doesn't equal the light of the moon.
He who takes a light to find a snake should start at his own feet.
To be proud of knowledge is to be blind with light.
A light cinch is best.
Zeal without knowledge is like fire without light.
He who sees the calamity of other people finds his own calamity light.
Light your lamp first at home and afterwards at the mosque.
A pair of light shoes is not all that is needed for dancing.
Cheerfulness and goodwill make labour light.
The owl does not praise the light, nor the wolf the dog.
It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate.
Do not hide your light under a bushel.
Every light hath its shadow.
The sun will bring to light what lay under the snow.
Hide not your light under a bushel.
If you don't light fires, smoke won't get in your eyes.
A light belly, heavy heart.
Light come, light go.
Many hands make light work.
May the smile of God light you to glory.
Someone else's hands are light, but not big.
When the light is crooked, the shadow is crooked.
Sometimes one has to light a candle for the devil too.
He that takes the raven for his guide will light on carrion.
We should not burn the light in both ends.
Light winning makes a heavy purse.
I have seen as light a green.
Lovers and lords want only to be alone together.
May waters drench peasants and lords or gentlemen, as many of them as it encounters.
There are three bad neighbours: great rivers, great lords, and great roads.
Lords and fools speak freely.
When the lords come out of the council-house, they are wiser than when they went in.
New lords, new laws.
Better afield with the birds than hanging on lords.
New lords, new laws.
New Lords, new Laws.
Making money on manure is better than losing money on musk.
Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk.
Buying and selling is but winning and losing.
Money is not gained by losing time.
Doubts mean losing half of one's case beforehand.
There are two great pleasures in gambling: that of winning and that of losing.
Fighting a losing battle.
Colts by falling, and lads by losing, grow prudent.
Going to law is losing a cow for the sake of a cat.
No one cries for losing money but the one who earned the money, no one cries for losing the child but his mother.
Losing comes of winning money.
He, who differs, ends up losing.
High trees catch lots of wind.
There is always lots of time to die and to pay.
Nunziata, fix the salad, a little vinegar, lots of oil, four reckless mouthfuls, and then some drinks from the jug.
A little axe, when well used, brings lots of food.
A physician is also a man who pours special drugs into lots of bodies he rarely loves.
Where shepherds are lots, sheep are lost.
When there are lots of insects, look for a good grain year.
The summer that yields lots of pumpkins and horse radish doesn't fill the larder.
Lots of geese can conquer pigs... Sok lúd disznót győz.
The person who does not listen to an elder's advice gets his or her leg broken.
No one is as deaf as the man who will not listen.
We have two ears and one mouth that we may listen the more and talk the less.
One who keeps saying 'I will listen and obey' will be cooked with the corn cob.
Listen with one ear; be suspicious with the other.
One must talk little, and listen a lot.
Listen to all, 'plucking a feather from every passing goose,' but follow no one absolutely.
Listen to the sound of the river and you will get a trout.
Having two ears and one tongue, we should listen twice as much as we speak.
There's no worse deaf man than the man who doesn't want to listen.
Listen with kindness for a clear explanation.
One who enters a forest does not listen to the breaking of the twigs in the brush.
If you listen to dogs barking, you'll go deaf and never learn much.
A silent man is the best one to listen to.
He who doesn't listen to advise from others goes to his parents in-law smeared with faeces.
One must talk little and listen much.
It takes two to lie, one to lie and one to listen.
He that won't listen, must feel.
He who heeds the first word of his wife must listen forever to the second.
Listen to that which is well said even if it is from the mouth of an enemy.
Listen to valuable statements even if they come from your enemy's mouth.
The more you listen the more you give yourself room for doubt.
To speak is to sow; to listen is to reap.
Listen a hundred times; ponder a thousand times; speak once.
Who doesn't listen to reason, can't do things with reason.
Eat what is cooked, listen to what is said.
An empty stomach will not listen to anything.
God will listen to you whatever cloak you wear.
Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf.
Listen to the voice of nature, For it holds treasures for you.
If you are a leader of peace, listen to the discourse of the petitioner. Be not abrupt with him; that would trouble him.
Listen to the voice of your blood.
Those who do not listen to the voice of the elderly are like trees without roots.
One must talk little, and listen much.
When an elder speaks, be silent and listen.
If I listen, I have the advantage; if I speak, others have it.
Youths talk first and then listen, the elderly listen and then talk.
With his ears let him listen, and look with his eyes; thus each wise man spies out the way.
If you can't get people to listen to you any other way, tell them it's confidential.
Knock on the sky and Listen to the sound.
If you wish to know what most occupies a man's thoughts, you have only to listen to his conversation.
When a woman talks to you, smile but do not listen.
To listen well is as powerful a means of influence as to talk well and is as essential to all true conversation.
If you wish to know the mind of a man, listen to his words.
Ears that do not listen to advice, accompany the head when it is chopped off.
Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf.
Observe with the eyes; listen with the ears; shut the mouth.
The words of the elderly are as sweet as honey, but if you do not listen they become as sour as bile.
To tell the truth is dangerous; to listen to it is boring.
When the government has no ears to listen with, then she has no head for governing.
A prince without ears to listen has no head to govern.
Never listen to these three advisers: wine, the night, and love.
Tell a lazy man to do something. Listen to philosophy!
Happy the generation where the great listen to the small, for it follows that in such a generation the small will listen to the great.
There would be no slanderers if none would listen to them.
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
Listen with each ear, then to judgment.
Listen to the mountain wind, 'til the streams abate.
Who fails to listen to his elders, will hang his knapsack in the wrong place.
Who wants to judge needs to listen to the parties.
Listen to the old and you won't be mistaken.
How many will listen to the truth when you tell them?
Safely housed to listen to the storm outside.
Listen to that which is openly and seriously spoken.
Advise and counsel him; if he does not listen, let adversity teach him.
It is fairer to listen to the string that broke than to never strain a bow.
Happy the generation where the great listen to the small.
O daughter, I'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it.
If i listen i have the advantage, if i speak others have it.
Listen to your conviction, even if they seem absurd to your reason.
Listen to people twice as much as you speak.
Listen to advice and accept correction, then in the end you will be wise.
A man has two ears and one mouth; he therefore should listen more than he talks.
Stop, look and listen.
He who doesn't want to listen will have to experience.
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
The bell is loud because it is empty.
If a bamboo tube makes a loud sound, it is empty.
Cross the loud river but don't cross the silent one.
A loud voice can make even the truth sound foolish.
A man with a loud laugh makes truth itself seem folly, Truth is great and will win out.
Don't be afraid of he who's loud and noisy, be afraid of he who's head is down.
Drums sound loud because they are hollow.
Long and lazy, little and loud; fat and fulsome, pretty and proud.
If the thunder is not loud, the peasant forgets to cross himself.
Silence condemns more effectively than loud accusations.
Little sorrows are loud, great ones silent.
An old wolf is not scared by loud cries.
The storm of reeds is loud till you go through them.
Loud cheeps the mouse, when the cat's no rustling.
Drive fast and sing loud!
Better one day as a lion than a hundred as a sheep.
A cat in her house has the teeth of a lion.
Be a lion at home and a fox abroad.
It is better to be the head of a mouse, then the tail of a lion.
Once a man has been bitten by a lion, he buys a dog.
A trapped cat becomes a lion.
A lion lurks in everyone's heart; awake him not.
For his master the dog is a lion.
Necessity turns lion into fox.
When a lion is old, he becomes the plaything of jackals.
Necessity changes a lion into a fox.
A cat in a cage becomes a lion.
Where the skin of the lion does not suffice, we must join that of the fox.
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
A flea can trouble a lion more than the lion can harm a flea.
By the claw you may know the lion.
The union of means triumphs over the lion.
The roaring lion kills no game.
Kindness can pluck the whiskers of a lion.
Even a weak lion is not bitten by a dog.
The roaring lion kills no game.
Until the lion tells his side of the story, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
Who is brave enough to tell the lion that his breath smells?
The child of lion is a lion.
When you play with a lion, do not put your hand in its mouth.
Do not try to fight a lion if you are not one yourself.
When a lion cannot find the flesh to feed on, it has no choice but to eat the grass.
When a lion runs and looks back, its not that he is afraid, rather he is trying to see the distance he has covered.
The lion may be king of the jungle but he knows, he shouldn't stand in the way of the elephant.
In the eyes of the mouse the cat is a lion.
An army of stags led by a lion would be more formidable than one of lions led by a stag.
If you see the fangs of the lions, don't think the lion is smiling.
Better to be a free dog than a caged lion.
A cat is a lion to mouse.
Better a living dog than a dead lion.
Even the lion must defend himself against the flies.
Even a cat is a lion in her own lair.
A living dog is been than a dead lion.
Every dog is a lion at home.
A cat pent up becomes a lion.
When the lion is dead the hares jump upon his carcase.
Who takes a lion at a distance fears a mole present.
Don't be a lion in your own house.
The lion won't turn on a barking puppy.
The lion basks in the rays of the giraffes sun.
A brave man is scared of a lion three times: first when he sees the tracks; second when he hears the first roar; and third when they are face to face.
Knowledge is like a lion; it cannot be gently embraced.
Even hares pull a lion by the beard when he is dead.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; married, an ass.
Better be the head of a rat than the tail of a lion.
When the webs of the spider join, they can trap a lion.
It is better to be the cub of a live jackal than of a dead lion.
Don't fight a lion with a stick.
The lion believes that everyone shares his state of mind.
When a lion roars, he does not catch game.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion.
Even rabbits insult an dead lion.
When the lion gets old even flies attack him.
The righteous are bold as a lion.
A lion cannot hear its own roar.
Slow moving lion eats meat.
The lion which moves silently is the one that eats meat.
Wake not a sleeping lion.
A lion at home, and a fox abroad.
Where the cattle stand together, the lion lies down hungry.
When spider webs unite, they tie up a lion.
A roaring lion kills no game.
The lion does not turn around when a small dog barks.
The hand that tied the lion knows best how to untie it.
Only a goat that is tired of life invites a lion to dinner.
When the threads unite, they can tie the lion.
Eating tough meat is always harder for a toothless lion.
The cat may look like a lion, but that does not make it a lion.
He that fought the lion must surely have the lion's claws in his body.
The bravery of a lion doesn't protect it from the spear of a hunter.
No matter how well tamed a lion, it will one day go back to the bush.
The cat is a lion to the mouse.
A live dog is better than a dead lion.
He who killeth the lion when absent feareth a mouse when present.
The brains of a fox will be of little service if you play with the paw of a lion.
A live dog is better than a dead lion.
Death was afraid of him because he had the heart of a lion.
A lion on me and an ostritch in war.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
If you are saved from the lion, do not be greedy and hunt it.
This cub is from that lion.
There are only two things from which to choose: profit or loss.
Caution minimizes loss.
You may light another's candle with your own without loss.
Borrowing is bad, and paying back is always a loss.
There is never trust without loss.
What greater crime than loss of time?
Women are never at a loss for words.
When at a loss how to go on, cough.
Death is never at a loss for occasions.
There's no great loss without some gain.
No day in which you learn something is a complete loss.
A hundred years cannot repair a moment's loss of honour.
A good son-in-law is like the acquisition of a new son; a bad one is like the loss of your daughter.
A clever master turns even a loss into a gain.
The cry of the hyena and the loss of the goat are one.
Adversity and loss make a man wise.
Loaning money causes loss of memory.
Who stands up with anger will sit down with loss.
He that is not sensible of his loss has lost nothing.
He ain't even loss he mudda features yet.
Where profit is, loss is hiding nearby.
A day of reading is a day of gain; a day without reading is ten days of loss.
A centipede is not crippled by the loss of one limb.
He that has no good trade, it is to his loss.
What greater crime than loss of time?
The fruit of timidity is neither gain nor loss.
The death of a friend is equivalent to the loss of a limb.
The loss which your neighbour does not know is no real loss.
There is no loss, which is not a gain for somebody.
When glory comes, loss of memory follows.
After one loss comes many.
It is a loss of soap to wash the ass's head.
The fist loss is the best.
Possessions dwindle: I mourn their loss. But I mourn the loss of time much more, for anyone can save his purse, but none can win back lost time.
One man's loss is another man's gain.
An evil gain is equal to a loss.
We learn the value of things more in their loss than in their enjoyment.
To wash an ass's head is but loss of time and soap.
One man's loss is another man's gain.
In every little house there is a little louse.
You can't catch a louse with one finger.
One thumb alone does not kill a louse.
Sue a beggar and catch a louse.
One finger can't ketch louse.
An ape, a priest, and a louse, are three devils in one house.
One finger alone cannot even kill a louse.
One finger alone cannot kill even a louse.
One finger does not kill a louse.
Active people never have louse bites.
Sue a beggar and get a louse.
A crow does not louse the buffalo to clean him but to feed himself.
There is nothing so crouse, as a new washen louse.
It is short while seen the louse boore the langelt.
He that marries a beggar gets a louse for a tocher.
Don't trust a trained louse.
Young cats will mouse, young apes will louse.
He'd skin a louse, and send the hide and fat to market.
Learning means loving the country.
Talking to one another is loving one another.
Don't try to make someone hate the person he loves, for he will still go on loving, but he will hate you.
Loving someone that does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest.
When you enjoy loving your neighbor, it ceases to be a virtue.
Loving and singing are not to be forced.
Loving and singing are two things that should not be forced.
A loving man, a jealous man.
Loving a woman who scorns you is like licking honey from a thorn.
Two things prolong your life: A quiet heart and a loving wife.
Loving your country is pious.
Praising is not loving.
Where ghosts walk, there is loving or thieving.
A hoe made small from loving work came to visit and together we cultivated our relationship. When united everything is possible.
Loving with the eyes only, has blinded a lot of fools.
It is loving too much to die of love.
Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe. Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for its living, And a child that's born of the Sabbath day Is fair and wise and good and gay.
Loving someone who does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest.
Lovely women, lovely quarrels.
How lovely is the sun after rain, and how lovely is laughter after sorrow.
A bandicoot is lovely to his parents; a mule is pretty to its mate.
A sweet lovely voice cannot make a dumb person talk.
Lovely women, lovely quarrels.
Lovely flowers fade fast.
Syracuse is a lovely place, with five bucks you can eat, drink, and get by.
If you see someone riding a bamboo-cane, tell him "What a lovely horse!"
It is not worth telling a lovely story at the funeral.
A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks, an ugly girl by the help of a mirror.
A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks.
The lover who gives you her body but not her heart is generous with thornless roses.
A jealous lover becomes an indifferent spouse.
In the eyes of a lover a pock-marked face is one with pretty dimples.
Scratch a lover and find an enemy.
All the world loves a lover.
Let him not be a lover who has not courage.
When a man is not a lover in his twenties, not strong in his thirties, not rich in his forties and not wise in his fifties he will never be so.
The lover of a student does not always become the wife of a graduate.
The woman who deceives her husband makes her lover swear never to be unfaithful to her.
As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, the truest lover may turn into the worst enemy.
As is the lover so is the beloved.
Better a poor husband than a lover who's a baron.
A good hater,a good lover.
Too much prudishness makes the lover sick.
Perhaps you will soon find another, and a fairer, lover.
Being hit by a dear person or by your lover is like eating raisins.
Where I make my living, there is my home.
Living life is not like just crossing a field.
The earth is God's bride -- she feeds the living and cherishes the dead.
Living is not a reward and dying is no crime.
Every one has his place: the dead in the cemetery and the living at the table.
The highest art is the art of living an ordinary life in an extraordinary manner.
Words die and men keep on living.
If rich people could hire other people to die for them, the poor could make a wonderful living.
The dead to his burial ground, and the living to his fooling around.
Who grudges his blood to a blade had better earn his living behind the plow.
There as many ways of making a living as seeds of grass.
It is precisely the uncertainty of this world that makes life worth living.
The company of the wicked is like living in a fish market; one becomes used to the foul odor.
Living in worry invites death in a hurry.
A dimple in the chin, your living comes in; a dimple in the cheek, your living to seek.
Ignorance is the death of the living.
Better a living dog than a dead lion.
True friendship is like one soul living in two bodies.-.
There's no living without friends.
A living dog is been than a dead lion.
A living ass is better than a dead doctor.
Better a living donkey than a dead doctor.
It is good living under the shadow of the belfry.
If the rich could hire the poor to die for them, the poor would make a very nice living.
The living are denied a table; the dead get a whole coffin.
The dead with the dead, and the living with the living.
Who's lazy when living will be lazy when dying.
The fear of death takes away the joy of living.
Work earns a living but trade makes you rich.
One can even get used to living hell.
Living mindlessly is paradise.
Living is worthless for one without a home.
When we show our respect for other living things, they respond with respect for us.
Wisdom comes only when you stop looking for it and start living the life the Creator intended for you.
The community of living is the carriage of the lord.
Always being in a hurry does not prevent death, neither does going slowly prevent living.
Even in paradise, living all alone would be hell.
Living in the past has one thing going for it; it's cheaper!
Houses are the graves of the living.
The way of this world is to praise dead saints and persecute living ones.
A boy living near a buddhist temple can learn an untaught sutra by heart.
It is easy to die - the difficulty lies in living.
To die is to stop living but to stop living is something entirely different than dying.
Living at a river, one comes to know the nature of the fish therein; Dwelling by a mountain, one learns to recognize the language of the birds thereupon.
The spirits are the strength and counsel to the living.
The dead are not seen in the company of the living.
Blessings of ancestors are greater than those of a living human being.
Living near a lake doesn't mean you eat fish whenever you need.
Dying is as natural as living soundly.
It's safer to commend the dead than the living.
No living man all things can.
Life liveth not in living, but in liking.
Ambition makes people scorn rustic living.
Paradise without people is not worth living in..
Two scorpions living in the same hole will get along better than two sisters in the same house.
It is discreditable to fly from a living enemy, or to abuse a dead one.
Better one living word than a hundred dead ones.
Success is doing what you like and making a living at it.
The dead open the eyes of the living.
It takes four living men to carry one dead man out of a house.
If the rich could hire someone else to die for them, the poor would make a wonderful living. .
A living dog is better than a dead lion.
We must live by the living, not by the dead.
There is aye life for a living man.
Be happy while you're living, For you're a long time dead.
You cannot compare the living with the dead.
Being in love with a married woman is living on borrowed time.
The living who is absent is like a dead man.
A man should go on living - if only to satisfy his curiosity.
If God were living on earth, people would break His windows.
By the living we bury the dead.
No living man all things can.
Living life is not like crossing a meadow.
A son will learn from his father to make a living, a daughter will learn from her mother to cut clothes.
He who has lost his reputation is a dead man among the living.
Renown is denied to the living.
He who hath lost his good name how shall he in future gain his living.
Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe. Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for its living, And a child that's born of the Sabbath day Is fair and wise and good and gay.
He makes his home where the living is best.
If the truth hurts, you are not living right.
The Russians think that life without booze is the same like not living at all.
When we show our respect for other living things, they respond with respect for us.
Better a living dog than a dead lion.
Living off the fat of the land.
With the three means of punishment, words, thoughts and acts, ye shall not injure living things.
What reveals itself to me ceases to be mysterious for me alone if I unveil it to anyone else, he hears mere words which betray the living sense Profanation, but never revelation.
Every living thing has a story to tell.
The fall of a leaf is a whisper to the living.
If you live on the river, befriend the crocodile.
He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Don't live in a town where there are no doctors.
To live with wolves, you have to howl like a wolf.
If a man would live in peace, he should be blind, deaf, and dumb.
Two bears don't live in one cave.
Better to die than to live on with a bad reputation.
If you tell people to live together, you tell them to quarrel.
He who has nothing to die for has nothing to live for.
If our feet leave the earth we no longer live in peace.
You must be willing to die in order to live.
Live in my heart and pay no rent.
If you would live long, open your heart.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years; the slave of a woman dies in six months.
Not only of bread will the man live.
If you live in the river you should make friends with the crocodile.
Who can say with certainty that one will live to see the morrow?
While the sun is still up, let people work that the earth may live.
Everyone wants to live long, but no one wants to be called old.
People live with their own idiosyncrasies and die of their own illnesses.
When husband and wife live in harmony, they can dry up the ocean without a bucket.
'tis altogether vain to learn wisdom, and yet live foolishly.
Come live with me and you'll know me.
It is easier to visit friends than to live with them.
If a dead tree falls, it carries with it a live one.
Better to die on your feet than to live on your knees.
It's better to be poor, than to live alone.
You judge the way you live.
Live and learn, die and forget it all.
If you live in a glass house, don't throw stones.
You must live within your sacred truth.
All who live under the sky are woven together like one big mat.
Those who live together cannot hide their behinds from each other.
A parasite cannot live alone.
Two cats will not live together in one sack.
Pretend that you are crazy, you will live.
"come see me” and "come live with me” are two different things.
Work is good provided you do not forget to live.
The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door but live in different cells.
Invalids live the longest.
Better to die than to live in shame.
May you live up to one hundred years and i up to ninety-nine.
Sparrows, though they live to be a hundred, do not forget their dance.
If you debark a tree don't expect it to live again; you can only plant another of its kind.
Rise early, live soberly, and apply yourself with industry.
Only live fish swim up stream.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live you life in a manner so that when you die the world cries and you rejoice.
Man cannot live by bread alone.
Give me flowers while I live.
If you eat a live toad first thing in the morning, nothing worse will happen all day long.
It is better to be a live rabbit than a tiger.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
Live and let live.
To live long is to suffer long.
Don't throw rocks if you live in a house of glass.
Would you live long, be healthy and fat, drink like a dog and eat like a cat.
You must live with a person to know a person. If you want to know me come and live with me.
As you live yourself, you judge your neighbor.
People live in each other's shelter.
A glutton lives to eat; a wise man eats to live.
You learn to limp if you live with cripples.
As the king lives, so live his vassals.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice.
Eat fire and your mouth burn; live on credit and your pride will burn.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows: he breathes but does not live.
Better to live well than long.
Live and learn.
He who waits shall live to see.
It is better to live for one day as a tiger than to live for a thousand years as a sheep.
Who can say for sure that one will live to see tomorrow.
We do not live to eat, but we eat to live.
It is a fine thing to die for one's fatherland, but a still finer thing to live for it.
In a house where two daughters live, the cat dies of thirst.
Long live the headdress, because hats come and go.
Who grows up without fear will live without honour.
As long as you live, you learn.
If you want to live to be old you need to start early.
Live long and prosper.
Better to die upright than to live on your knees.
Hope does not kill; I shall live in hope of getting what I seek another day.
Fools build house and wise men live in them.
Teachers die, but books live on.
It's vain to learn wisdom yet live foolishly.
Live a good and useful life.
Live for a century ? learn for a century.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
To live is well, but to live well is better.
God lives in an honest heart.
The white man lives in the castle; when he dies, he lies in the ground.
The light heart lives long.
He who lives shall see.
Not only of bread lives a man.
He who lives without discipline dies without honor.
He lives long who lives well.
He lives in the land of promise.
He that lives with cripples learns to limp.
Who lives in exile finds that spring has no charm.
The brave one lives as long as the cowards lets him.
Nobody lives in another person's head.
The brave man lives until the coward wants.
He who lives on illusions, dies of disillusion.
The king lives way up where the stench of the poor cannot reach him.
A careful hyena lives a long time.
He who lives more lives than one, more deaths than one must die.
Love lives in palaces as well as in thatched cottages.
Some people want to be praised for the rest of their lives for what they have done well for one day.
The world lives on hope.
A cowardly hyena lives longer.
A cat has nine lives; for three he plays, for three he strays, and for the last three he stays.
He that lives in a glass house must not throw stones.
As a man lives, so shall he die.
He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
He who lives in a glass house should not throw stones.
He that lives on hope has but a slender diet.
He who lives in a glass house should be the last to throw stones.
A cat has nine lives, as the onion seven skins.
He who lives on hope, dies of hunger.
There's a fool born every minute – and every one of them lives.
Reputations last longer than lives.
Fame lives on after death.
He who lives with hope dies happy.
A glutton lives to eat; a wise man eats to live.
A man lives long in his native place.
One learns as long as one lives and still dies a fool.
As the king lives, so live his vassals.
The devil lives beneath a slattern woman's skirts.
He who lives by hope will die by hunger.
The man who lives only by hope will die with despair.
He who lives among wolves learns to howl.
As long as a language lives, the people will not perish.
A man who lives alone is either always overworked, or always overfed.
A man who lives on the bank of a river does not use spittle to wash his hands.
Dead though the oil-palm may be, the maggot in it lives on.
He who lives in the attic knows where the roof leaks.
He who lives on hope, dies on shit.
He who lives fast goes straight to his death.
Anyone who lives will know trying times.
Who lives together with a pig will end up eating shit.
The generous and bold have the best lives.
Who lives in a quiet house has plenty.
A threatened man lives seven years.
Children and fools have merry lives.
Who drinks till bottom, lives without mind.
The more one lives the more one learns.
Your true enemy lives in your own house.
He who lives with hope dies happy.
The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives.
A man who lives on the banks of the Niger should not wash his hands with spittle.
He that lives long suffers much.
A cat has nine lives.
The soul is not where it lives, but where it loves.
A reed before the wind lives on, while mighty oaks do fall.
A man who lives on the banks of the Niger should not wash his hands with spittle.
The evil everyone does lives after him or her.
The ant that destroys a kola nut lives inside it.
No matter how long a bird lives in a cage, it will always want to escape.
The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives.
He that lives carnally won't live eternally.
He that lives on hope has a slender diet.
He who drinks and walks away lives to drink another day.
He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.
An artist lives everywhere.
He that lives most dies most.
He that lives too fast, goes to his grave too soon.
He who lives according to nature will never be poor, and he who lives according to opinion will never be rich.
A threatened man lives long, if he can get bread.
The endless saver always lives in poverty.
He that lives in hope dances to an ill tune.
He who lives without restraint, will die without honour.
For a lot of people their conscience lives in the middle of the street.
Eight lives for the men and nine for the women.
He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.
The person who lives by hope will die by despair.
He who lives by the sword dies by the sword.
Pay the doctor, praise the lord.
To the dog who has money, men say: my lord dog.
Everybody loves a lord.
Not even the lord of light can turn back time, or undo what has been done.
Only a race horse or a comyn lord is judged by his pedigree.
There is no good accord where every man would be a lord.
Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market.
Literal meaning: The people's lord is their servant.
Wherever there is a pretty spot, the devil plants a monastery or a lord.
You are my guide, my lord, and my master.
Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord.
Faith in a lord, a cap for the fool.
May the lord grant me a sword and no need to use it.
The lord will drench you with his showers, but he will dry you with his sun.
He who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord.
The community of living is the carriage of the lord.
The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord.
A prudent wife is from the lord.
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, if the Lord doesn't get you, the devil must.
Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition.
Your lord is the lord of hearts.
The Lord will not fail to come, though he may not come on horseback.
Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee.
Those who love in the Lord never see each other for the last time.
The cock is a lord on his own dunghill.
He who gives to the poor, lends to the Lord.
The devil seduced Eve in Italian. Eve mislead Adam in Bohemian. The Lord scolded them both in German. Then the angel drove them from paradise in Hungarian.
Who wakes up early, Lord God provides him.
The shadow of a lord is a cap for a fool.
Even God our Lord has given way to a drunken man.
Give me, my Lord, but do it immediately.
A lord without riches is a soldier without arms.
The lord tests those he loves.
Lord, make us shepherds in spring and swineherds in winter.
The Lord gives biscuits to he who has teeth.
Serve the Lord and you'll see what pain is.
Give me, Lord, my daily bread, I will get my own brandy.
To every lord every honour.
Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth.
Serve a lord and you'll know what is grief.
A stake, my lord; "hero" is its name.
Utu, the lord who loves justice, extirpates wickedness and prolongs righteousness.
A lord is a lord in hell as well.
What's drinking? / A mere pause from thinking. (Lord Byron)
Aid yourself and the lord will come.
Give me, Lord, my daily bread, I will get my own brandy.
Whom the lord loveth, he chasteneth.
The Lord gives cold according to one's clothes.
Hope in the Lord, but exert yourself.
We are all equal in the eyes of the Lord.
He can't see the beam in his own, but he's looking for an eyelash in someone else's.
He's looking for the donkey while sitting on it.
Never burn a penny candle looking for a halfpenny.
he has lost the horse, but is looking for the horseshoe.
Meaning: Blaming the wrong reason. Looking for a scapegoat.
What you go looking for, you will find.
What's too hard for a man must be worth looking into.
When you are looking for a country with no tombstones you will find yourself in the land of cannibals.
Do not waste your time looking for soft ground to drive your spade in.
If you are looking for bad luck, you will soon find it.
The devil was good looking at eighteen, and course tea makes a bitter first cup.
The woman who takes a wolf for a husband is always looking into the wood.
Looking at a king's mouth one would never think he sucked his mother's breast.
Carve the peg by looking at the hole.
The looking glass is the enemy of ugly women.
A blind man will not thank you for a looking glass.
A lizard that fell from the top of a tree wastes its time looking back to where it fell from; if there was anything good the lizard deserved, it could not have missed it while it was there on top of the tree.
Looking for a pin in the ocean.
The winter does not go without looking backward.
Once you have found your first diamond, you will never give up looking.
If you are looking for a fly in your food it means that you are full.
Looking down at one's nose.
No money is taken for just looking at somebody or something.
Looking at a tree see its fruit; looking at a man see his deeds.
The wise man says "I am looking for truth”; and the fool, "I have found truth.”.
Wisdom comes only when you stop looking for it and start living the life the Creator intended for you.
Learn about the future by looking at the past.
The one who is looking for a wife doesn't speak contemptuously of women.
Good looking and good luck don't always walk the same road.
When you are looking upwards you see no frontiers.
Looking up we are not ashamed in the presence of heaven, nor bowing down are we ashamed in the presence of earth.
A thriftless woman burns the entire candle looking for a match.
Men in the game are blind to what men looking on see clearly.
Looking for a donkey on its very back.
Looking for fish? Don't climb a tree.
Even ugly faces are worth looking at -- and that is a great comfort for most people.
If you borrow from an eagle you will always be looking up in the sky.
A person who is always looking at the sky will never discover anything on the ground.
The eye looking at the sun will not need an adviser before it blinks.
Even if you close your eyes while looking in the mirror the image remains yours.
You can't blame a dentist for looking down at the mouth.
Good luck, with good looking after!
Proverbs bear age, and he who would do well may view himself in them as in a looking glass.
A blind man needs no looking glass.
Good looking apples are sometimes sour.
When you can't find peace within yourself, there is no use looking for it somewhere else.
When he was fifteen the devil was a good looking boy.
What go looking for, will find.
Many people who have gold in the house are looking for copper outside.
To offer friendship to one who is looking for love, is like giving bread to someone dying of thirst.
He who has a good looking wife, a castle on the river, or a vineyard on the roadside is never without war.
There's nothing worse than a person looking for a quarrel.
He is looking out for a fig.
A stick in the eye to the one who keeps on looking back old happenings.
There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew, and that is fishing for a clam in the clam chowder.
There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew.
A weapon that you don't have in your hand will not kill a snake. Looking for something can get in the way of finding it.
Lying in the gutter, looking at the stars.
If you want a beautiful woman, hurry to Syracuse: if you want her ugly, run to Terranova, go to Rosolini if you want her lazy and to Spaccaforno if you're looking for one to try.
(He/She) went looking for wool and came back shorn.
Lower your head modestly while passing, and you will harvest bananas.
The taller the bamboo grows, the lower it bends.
It's not a matter of upper and lower class but of being up a while and down a while.
The higher the mountain the lower the valley, the taller the tree the harder the fall.
When you lift your hand to strike, you are three-tenths lower than your opponent.
It is not a matter of upper and lower class but of ups and downs.
Blaw the wind ne'er so fast, it will lower at last.
He that lies upon the ground can fall no lower.
Always ask a higher price, because you can always lower it.
No shame in asking questions, even to people of lower status.
A hero is one who knows how to hang on one minute longer.
If our feet leave the earth we no longer live in peace.
When a heifer is far from home she grows longer horns.
The anvil lasts longer than the hammer.
A day in prison is longer than a thousand years at large.
Time is longer than a rope.
The thread must be longer than the needle.
Flourish like a flower, but may your life be longer.
A cowardly hyena lives longer.
The nearer the inn, the longer the road.
A scholars ink lasts longer than a martyr's blood.
Reputations last longer than lives.
The Older one marries, the longer the nights.
A secret imparted is no longer a secret.
The wedding lasts for two or three days, but the trouble stays longer.
If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean.
Good memories last long, bad ones last longer.
Friday is longer than Saturday.
Heroism consists of hanging on one minute longer.
To be a hero hang on for a minute longer.
The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey will seem.
Shame lasts longer than poverty.
A woman's tongue is longer than her hair.
Relations last longer when the family is in distress.
Latinum lasts longer than lust.
A cleaved head no longer plots.
A head stuck on a pike no longer conspires.
The more you ask how far you have to go, the longer your journey seems.
A cowardly hyena lives longer.
Time is longer than a rope.
If you want a certain thing, you must first be a certain person. Once you are that certain person, obtaining that certain thing will no longer be a concern of yours.
You can dead longer than ya live.
A good place you don't go to is a good place: if you go too often, it isn't a good place any longer.
A day of grief lasts longer than a month of joy.
A day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy.
The palest ink lasts longer than the most retentive memory.
A feet can be shorter while an inch can be longer.
The flowers in your garden don't smell as sweet as those in the wild, but they last much longer.
When people are no longer afraid of death, there is no use threatening them with it.
The kola nut stays longer in the mouths of those who value it.
A man who touches the bottom of a soup plate with a ball of foofoo is no longer searching for soup.
Water is colourless and tasteless but you can live on it longer than eating food.
Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give a bad example.
Beauty is no longer amiable than while virtue adorns it.
The longer we live, the more wonders we see.
Longer than the winter's night.
longer than a sepration day.
The goose that has lost its head no longer cackles.
You cannot have peace longer than your neighbour chooses.
Eat less, live longer.
We will stay longer dead than poor.
Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer.
He who is slow to anger is longer getting over it.
A day to come seems longer than a year that's gone.
He whose throat is longer than his arm must pray constantly for gods' protection.
You can't take a step that's longer than your legs.
Eat meat and fish and live longer.
The wild pear has blossomed: the kid goat no longer suffers.
The longer you live the more you suffer.
The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey seems.
If you start thinking of death, you are no longer sure of life.
When many shepherds tend the sheep, they but so much the longer sleep.
What is done no longer needs to be done.
The reputation of a man is like his shadow; it sometimes follows and sometimes precedes him, it is sometimes longer and sometimes shorter than his natural size.
Maturity consists of no longer being taken in by oneself.
The obscure we see eventually. The completely apparent takes longer.
If you can't live longer, live deeper.
He who knows how to move around becomes strong. He will live longer than the sedentary man.
Time longer dan rope.
It is no longer good enough to cry peace, we must act peace, live peace and live in peace.
It always takes a person much longer to tell you what he thinks than what he knows.
Before you study Zen, a bowl is a bowl and tea is tea. While you are studying Zen, a bowl is no longer a bowl and tea is no longer tea. After you've studied Zen, a bowl is again a bowl and tea is tea.
If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean.
Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer.
The ceiling won't stay when the room is no longer there.
Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give a bad example.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
The difficult is done at once, the impossible takes a little longer.
Coming back with arms longer than legs.
If you start thinking of death, you are no longer sure of life.
It will not last longer than frying an egg.
The longer we live, the more farlies we see.
Who is known as an early riser may sleep longer.
Sickly women live longer.
It's a fine sermon about fasting when the preacher just had lunch.
Enjoy breakfast all alone, share lunch with your best friend and give dinner to your enemy.
Breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dine like a pauper.
After lunch, rest; after dinner take a walk.
Eat beans for lunch and have no friends at the dinner table.
Seven sets of ewers, but no dinner nor lunch.
Giving just a crumb to the hungry is worth more than giving lunch to the satisfied.
There ain't no such thing as a free lunch.
Don't ask a man for a favour before he has had his lunch.
Laugh before breakfast and you'll cry before lunch.
He who comes late gets bones for lunch.
Dog eat ya lunch.
A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed.
He who looks for a friend without a fault will never find one.
As the wise man looks for a bridge the fool crosses the river.
A pretty person looks pretty in every clothing.
He who looks on has two-thirds of the game.
A lawyer looks at you with one eye, but he looks at your pocket with two.
Once you have been tossed by a buffalo, a black ox looks like a buffalo.
The more one looks, the less one sees.
It only looks that way.
A narrow space looks wide to the narrow minded.
Something that looks good does not necessarily taste good.
You have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you.
People can no more be judged by their looks than the sea can be measured in bushels.
The crow is clever, but looks at what it eats.
When a lion runs and looks back, its not that he is afraid, rather he is trying to see the distance he has covered.
To a man who only has a hammer in his tool kit, every problem looks like a nail.
Even the hen looks toward heaven when she drinks.
If it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it's probably a duck.
A man is as old as he feels, a woman as old as she looks.
A straight stick looks crooked in the water.
He who looks up too much gets a pain in the neck.
The devil looks after his own.
He who looks on know more of the game than he who plays.
Nothing looks more like a man of sense than a fool who holds his tongue.
He who looks only at heaven may easily break his nose on earth.
My chicken is good, but my neighbor's looks better.
A pig that is used to wallowing in the mud looks for a clean person to rub against.
The world is nonsense: what looks beautiful in the morning looks ugly in the evening.
Whether well-shaven or not, it looks the same after a few days.
By firelight, an old rag looks like sturdy hemp fabric.
The old man looks death in the eye, the young man keeps him behind his back.
There's a man who looks like a partridge with legs like a mosquito.
The boor looks after a cent as the devil after a soul.
However you feed the wolf, he still looks at the wood.
Meanness looks through one eye only, ambition is blind.
Only the snake looks at its slayer.
Listening looks easy, but it's not that simple. Every head is a world.
Life is not separate from death. It only looks that way.
One who looks for a friend without faults will have none.
When an escaped prisoner looks for a guard, he always finds one.
The wise man looks ahead. The fool attempts to fool himself and won't face facts.
A person looks only on the outside of things; God looks into the very heart.
When a finger is pointing at the moon, the fool looks at the finger.
When a finger points at the moon, the imbecile looks at the finger.
A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed.
The cheapest way to improve your looks is to wear a smile.
Knowledge is better than wealth, you have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you.
A man without ambition is like a woman without looks.
It only looks that way.
Looks often deceive.
God looks to clean hands, not to full ones.
The other side of the road always looks cleanest.
The monkey looks into the mirror and sees a gazelle.
Every fox looks after his own skin.
No man looks for another in a sack, unless he has been there him himself.
No more teachers, no more books, no more teacher's dirty looks.
One look ahead is better than two looks behind.
The devil looks after his own.
Where the wolf gets one lamb he looks for another.
A woman talks to one man, looks at another, and thinks about a third.
The poor looks for food and the rich man for appetite.
The adult looks to deeds, the child to love.
If it walks like a duck, quacks like a duck, looks like a duck, it must be a duck.
He looks for a needle in a bundle of hay.
Let an ill man lie in thy straw, and he looks to be thy heir.
He that looks to freets, freets follow him.
He looks as if the wood were fu' o' thieves.
A herbalist that refuses to ask laymen what leaves he looks for in the bush, must have difficulties getting what he wants.
When the sky looks like a hot oven, if no rain today, rain tomorrow.
The man who looks after his own work has plenty to do to keep everything right.
Your looks betray your thoughts.
Dress up a country bumpkin and he looks like a baron.
Who looks for a quarrel, finds a quarrel.
He is a man that looks after maney as ‘njuu' looks after locusts.
He falsifies who renders a verse just as it looks.
Whomever looks for easy work goes to bed very tired.
By candle-light a goat looks like a lady.
The ball always looks for the best player.
He looks one way and rows another.
Hunger looks in at the industrious man's door but dares not enter.
Nothing looks more like an honest man than a villain.
He looks for his ass and sits on its back.
Who looks not before finds himself behind.
When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
He who looks demurely trust not with your money.
The devil looks after himself.
Looks like throwing knives.
Looks like a runaway from the gravedigger.
Where the hedge is low every one will cross it.
At high tide the fish eat ants; at low tide the ants eat fish.
Know those who are faithful to you when you are in low estate.
If you bow at all, bow low.
If there is no reason, why would the tempua bird nest on the low branches?
A house built by the wayside is either too high or too low.
Don't carry your head too high, the door is low.
He who would succeed at court, must lie sometimes low, sometimes high.
He that flies high falls low down.
Where passion is high, reason is low.
He must stoop that has a low door.
He that abideth low cannot fall hard.
After high floods come low ebbs.
For the birds that cannot soar, God has provided low branches.
Mackerel sky and mares' tails make lofty ships carry low sails.
No price is too low for a bear or too high for a bull.
When the big fish fight the shrimps must lie low.
Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling.
Falling hurts least those who fly low.
He who builds a house in the market-place, builds either too high or too low.
Look high and fall low.
Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling.
God finds a low branch for the bird that cannot fly.
A low fog leaves good weather.
When the cost is high think about it, when it's low, buy a lot.
Partinico is a good town, good wine and low costs.
Looking for nails at low tide.
When the door is low one must stoop.
It is well to fly low on account of the branches.
Don't lie down in low places, flood will take you, don't lie down in high places, wind will take you.
If your wife tells you to throw yourself off a cliff, pray to God that it is a low one.
Egotist: a person of low taste, more interested in himself than in me. (Ambrose Bierce)
As the ocimbamba seeks the low lying tree so friends gather to the friendly person.
God finds a low branch for the bird that cannot fly.
Buy low, sell high.
No one falls low unless he attempt to climb high.
He who flys high, falls low.
God made low branches for birds that cannot fly so well.
The lucky eagle kills a mouse that has eaten salt.
A lucky person is someone who plants pebbles and harvests potatoes.
If you were born lucky, even your rooster will lay eggs.
The more you know, the luckier you get.
You cannot be lucky forever.
Lucky charms protect you only if you have your own luck.
Don't travel under another's lucky star.
The day you decide to do it is your lucky day.
There is no one luckier than he who thinks himself so.
Third time lucky.
The lucky fellow loses his wife, the unlucky fellow loses his horse.
To be lucky you need a little wit.
A fall bodes a lucky journey from the house but not toward it.
The lucky man's enemy dies, and the unlucky man's friend.
A lucky man can stumble upon a treasure while an unlucky one can't even find a mushroom.
One who gets up early is doubly lucky.
It's better to not read at all than to believe everything you read. The day you decide to do it is your lucky day.
Unfortunates learn from their own mistakes, and the lucky ones learn from other's mistakes.
You will always be lucky if you know how to make friends with strange cats.
Lucky men need no counsel.
Throw a lucky man into the sea, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth.
He is lucky who forgets what cannot be mended.
Unlucky in gambling, lucky in love.
The lucky man has a daughter for his first-born.
If ever ye make a lucky pudding, I shall eat the prick.
When a poor man gets lucky, nothing can contain him.
If you are lucky, even your ox will calve.
Do not be born good or handsome, but be born lucky.
The lucky man has a daughter for his first-born.
It is better to be born lucky than rich.
He who is not lucky, let him not go to sea.
No one is luckier than him who believes in his luck.
It is better to be lucky than to be an early riser.
The lucky man waits for prosperity.
For a lucky man the pot boils without fire.
The lucky pennyworth sells soonest.
By desiring what belongs to others, you lose your own.
While yearning for excess we lose the necessities.
They that burn you for a witch lose all their coals.
Better to lose a little money than a little friendship.
To love the law is to lose money.
Rather lose the wool than the sheep.
Beware of him who has nothing to lose.
Beware of the person with nothing to lose.
When a king is about to lose his power his orders burn more intensely than fire.
Lazy people will eventually lose even their trousers.
Whoever lets himself be led by the heart will never lose his way.
The ears do not lose their interest.
Better to lose a minute in your life than your life in a minute.
Ones neighbours problems, does not induce one to lose their appetite over them.
Those who lose dreaming are lost.
It is better to lose your eyes than to lose your heart.
If you are absent you lose your share.
A wise man does not lose his way, a brave man does not fear.
The man will surely fail, who dares delay, and lose to-morrow that has lost to-day.
It is a little thing to starve to death; it is a serious matter to lose one's virtue.
You always learn a lot more when you lose than when you win.
If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely.
Pay your debts or lose your friends.
He's no fool who parts with what he can't keep to get what he shall not lose.
When you throw dirt, you lose ground.
All covet, all lose.
You must lose a fly, to catch a trout.
He who has lost his freedom has nothing else to lose.
He who heeds not the lost shoe-nail, will soon lose the horse.
Go to law for a sheep and lose your cow.
Any man can lose his hat in a fairy – wind.
Grasp all, lose all.
To lose is to learn.
You cannot discover new oceans unless you have the courage to lose sight of the shore.
Better lose the saddle than the horse.
Better gain in mud than lose in gold.
Better to lose the wool than the sheep.
Who loves to roam may lose his home.
Catch not at the shadow, and lose the substance.
If it's God's will the broom will lose its handle.
When crab walk too much him lose him claw.
It' better fi lose yu timedan yu character.
Ajaccio, ajaccio, if you don't go there, you won't lose your money.
He who puts off something will lose it.
Who goes to catch a partridge will lose a hen.
The good that you scoff at and ignore, you'll recognize when you lose it.
You always lose.
He who asks won't lose his way.
You never lose a false coin.
Better lose your labour than your time in idleness.
The fox may lose his hair, but not his cunning.
He sleeps securely who has nothing to lose.
He who recovers but the tail of his cow does not lose all.
A man may lose his goods for want of demanding them.
When your wine is finished, conversation ends; when your money has been spent, you lose your friends.
To relax the mind is to lose it.
When you lose the rhythm of the drumbeat of God, you are lost from the peace and rhythm of life.
To win a dispute is to gain a chicken and lose a cow.
The one who asks questions doesn't lose his way.
Lose your temper and you lose a friend; lie and you lose yourself.
When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it.
You may be clever but you can never lose your shadow.
If you forsake a certainty and depend on an uncertainty, you will lose both the certainty and the uncertainty.
Lose a leg rather than life.
You must be fully prepared to lose a great deal in order to make a great deal.
Those who lose dreaming are lost.
He who becomes blind in his old age does not lose his way.
Even if you hide yourself from the world, don't lose sight of your real nature.
You will never lose a battle if you know your own situation as well as that of the enemy.
He who has nothing to lose is rich.
Pick up a sesame seed only to lose a watermelon.
It takes a year to make a friend, but you can lose one in an hour.
Look for a thing until you find it and you'll not lose your labor.
Win your lawsuit and lose your money.
Deviate an inch, lose a thousand miles.
Win a cat and lose a cow -- the consequence of litigation.
If you are too shy to ask, you might lose your way. When you go away, the conversation changes.
A diamond doesn't lose its value due to lack of admiration.
When you lose on the drum-beating if the Gods, you lose on the rhythm and pace of life.
Use people who have something to gain, not people with nothing to lose.
Never lose heart because whatever is hot must in the end turn cold.
When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it.
Don't be stupid to replace wisdom with knowledge because you will lose understanding.
Candour will lose you some friends, but not as many as deceit.
Better lose a jest than a friend.
Better to risk a little than to lose the whole.
It's easier to lose faith than to find it again.
Make a loan and lose a friend.
Never do anything standing that you can do sitting, or anything sitting that you can do lying down.
When the hen gets fat, she stops lying.
The person who predicts the future is lying, even when he is right.
Loquacity and lying are cousins.
Funeral sermon, lying sermon.
Lying is the first step to the gallows.
Lying pays no tax.
To censure princes is perilous, and to praise them is lying.
It is better to suffer in name the truth than being rewarded for lying.
Moss grows on a lying stone.
A lying tongue had bereft him of life, and all without reason of right.
Gossiping and lying go hand in hand.
Lying rides upon debt's back.
Lying and stealing are next door neighbors.
Lying is the disease and truth is the cure.
Thievery and lying are kissing cousins.
Who eats lying on his side will commit ten sins, who eats lying on his back will commit seven sins.
Better to be poor and honest than to be rich and lying.
Tumbleweed entered the mouth of the lying camel.
Tumbleweed will not enter into the mouth of the lying camel.
It is in vain for a man to rise early who has the repute of lying in bed all the morning.
Almost and "about" prevent lying.
Lying and gossiping go hand in hand.
Where there's gossiping, there's lying.
If lying were a capital crime, the hangman would work overtime.
There is no tax upon lying.
An ounce of lying saves tons of explanations.
As the ocimbamba seeks the low lying tree so friends gather to the friendly person.
Gossiping and lying go hand in hand.
Shun the friendship of a lying man. Should you contract a friendship with him, be on your guard.
Lying in the gutter, looking at the stars.
All that is not given is lost.
It's better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
he has lost the horse, but is looking for the horseshoe.
No one was ever lost on a straight road.
Because of a period, Martin lost his post.
Virginity can be lost in one night.
Honour once lost never returns.
Soon found soon lost.
Love is too rare to be lost on jealousy.
The one who went to La Villa, lost his/her chair.
If the hope is lost, it's better to hurry.
If you see your neighbor has lost his beard, you'd best start lathering yours.
There is nothing lost by civility.
What comes easily is lost easily.
When the sea turned to honey, the poor man lost his spoon.
Those who lose dreaming are lost.
An ivory tooth is not cure for the lost tooth.
To get lost is to learn the way.
The man will surely fail, who dares delay, and lose to-morrow that has lost to-day.
You think you've lost your horse? who knows, he may bring a whole herd back to you someday.
He is riding the donkey, but has lost the donkey.
He saved his ears, but lost his head.
He who hesitates is lost.
All is not lost that is in danger.
Many things are lost for want of asking.
He that has lost his credit is dead to the world.
He who has lost his freedom has nothing else to lose.
He who finds what has not been lost, will chance to die before he is ill.
Between wrangling and disputing truth is lost.
He who heeds not the lost shoe-nail, will soon lose the horse.
It is not till the cow has lost her tail, that she discovers its value.
The man of courage never lost it.
There's many a ship lost within sight of harbour.
When the sea turned into honey, the beggar lost his spoon.
Men who have lost heart never yet won a trophy.
The one who left, lost his place.
The ass does not know the value of his tail till he has lost it.
A good thing is known when it is lost.
Hell is paved with good intentions, roofed in with lost opportunities.
Hell's roof is made from lost causes.
A fool went to fish, but lost his fishing-basket.
A friend is not known till he is lost.
Hope is the last thing ever lost.
The ass does not know the worth of this tail till he has lost it.
Through being too knowing the fox lost his tail.
The stitch is lost unless the thread be knotted.
If I have lost the ring I still have the fingers.
Plenty of words when the cause is lost.
Women and hens are lost by too much gadding.
Many a friend has been lost by a jest, but none has ever been got by one.
Kings matthias is dead, justice is lost.
It's no shame to look into the warm spring sun and regret a lost limb.
Words of insults are futile, the more they fit, the more they are lost.
Who approaches women penniless will be told: get lost.
He that is won with a nut, may be lost with an apple.
Truth is lost with too much debating.
The truth is lost when there is too much debating.
Fortune lost, nothing lost; courage lost, much lost; honour lost, more lost; soul lost, all lost.
Tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all.
Beauty is but dross it honesty be lost.
Better a ruined than a lost land.
He has lost the nest-egg.
Let every one look to himself, and no one will be lost.
One lost, two found.
All the treasures of earth cannot bring back one lost moment.
Friends are lost by calling too often and by not calling often enough.
A sea will not dry up, a nation will not get lost.
We do not care of what we have, but we cry when it is lost.
Good actions are never lost.
A good thing lost is a good thing valued.
We do not know what is good until we have lost it.
All's not lost that's in danger.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost.
He that is not sensible of his loss has lost nothing.
When he looked under the saddle he lost his horse.
Hours once lost cannot be regained.
A fool is like a wanderer lost on a path.
For want of a nail the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; for want of a horse the rider was lost.
You cannot be lost on a road that is straight.
Those who lose dreaming are lost.
A little idleness lost a tilled field.
It's by following his friends that a crab lost its hiding place.
Between brothers, whether the trial is won or lost, makes no difference.
Who gets lost in the forest takes it out on who leads him back to the right road.
Wisdom is lost in a fat man's body.
Count not what is lost but what is left.
Beware of the camel going to seek horns, he lost his ears.
Who gets lost in the forest takes it out on who leads him back.
If you love your son, let him travel.
In love beggar and king are equal.
Love overlooks defects; hatred magnifies them.
Don't shoot people you hate; don't lend to those you love.
Cultivate a heart of love that knows no danger.
One always returns to one's first love.
One who prevades the great universe is seen by none unless a man knows the unfolding of love.
Love is partner of blindness.
If you fall in love let her be a beauty; if you should steal, let it be a camel.
Men will love each other as long as one is richer than the other.
Let your love be like the misty rain, coming softly, but flooding the river.
Friendship reminds us of fathers, love of mothers.
Sadness is a valuable treasure -- only discovered in people you love.
To love the law is to lose money.
Leave her now and then if you would really love your wife.
Love truth even if it harms you, and hate lies even if they serve you.
Children's love is like water in a basket.
Love for something makes a man blind and deaf.
Dogs don't love people, they love the place where they are fed.
Where there is love there is no darkness.
If love is a sickness, patience is the remedy.
All is fair in love and war.
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
Love did not grow any garlic.
Love is blind to blemishes and faults.
Don't just take love, experience it.
He whose heart is aroused by love will never die.
It is not from the love of God that the cat catches mice.
The greater love is a mother's; then comes a dog's; then a sweetheart's.
Since love departs at dawn, create, O God, a night that has no morn.
Love from someone who is bad is worse than his hatred.
Without love everything is in vain.
It is love that makes the impossible possible.
Only love gives us the taste of eternity.
You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money.
Love is like fog - there is no mountain on which it does not rest.
Love is a garden full of flowers and marriage is a field of stinging nettles.
A heart in love with beauty never grows old.
Old love does not rust.
Cold broth hot again, that loved I never; Old love renew'd again, that loved I ever.
May the sun set on where my love dwells.
Love and prudence are absolutely incompatible.
Love is too rare to be lost on jealousy.
Never confuse gratitude with love.
When hunger comes through the door, love jumps out the window.
Works, and not words, are the proofs of love.
Love is blind -- but not the neighbors.
Eat the bread of the man you hate and also of him you love.
Love is deed and not fine phrases.
A mother has little love for a son who did not give her pain.
It is as difficult to win love as it is to pack salt in pine needles.
Where there is love, there is peace.
If you love, love the moon; if you steal, steal a camel.
One who marries for love alone will have bad days but good nights.
If you are wise, look after your house; love your wife without alloy.
The woman who does not covet the possessions of her husband is in love with another man.
Love is like a baby: it needs to be treated tenderly.
To love someone who does not love you is like shaking a tree to make the dew drops fall.
Love is like a rice plant; transplanted, it can grow elsewhere.
Love is like young rice: transplanted, still it grows.
Don't be so much in love that you can't tell when it's raining.
If love is torn apart you cannot stitch the pieces together again.
Love is just like rice - plant it elsewhere and it grows.
The quarrel of lovers is the renewal of love.
Love is a despot who spares no one.
The eye will often wander the road that love has taught.
Better a meal of vegetables where there is love than a fatted ox where there is hatred.
Find as much love as was given by your father and mother many times.
Perhaps you do not understand me because you do not love me.
Loving someone that does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest.
Can a mouse fall in love with a cat?
Love is the art of making exceptions.
He who treads the path of love walks a thousand meters as if it were only one.
Love without friendship is like a shadow without the sun.
Love lives in palaces as well as in thatched cottages.
Eat before falling in love.
Love and a cough cannot be hidden.
To truly love your wife, leave her alone every once in a while.
Debt severs love.
Brotherly love for brotherly love, but cheese for money.
Love is sometimes difficult but death even more so.
All is fair in love and golf.
Don't marry without love, but don't love without reason.
It's as difficult to win love as to wrap salt in pine needles.
Make love, not war.
The love of evil is the root of all money.
A mother's love never ages.
Love is as strong as death.
He who does not venture has no luck.
Luck is infatuated with the efficient.
It is bad luck to fall out of a thirteenth story window on Friday.
After bad luck comes good fortune.
Good luck beats early rising.
Give me, mother, luck at my birth, then throw me if you will on the rubbish heap.
Woman, wind, and luck soon change.
Luck favors the bold.
To have luck needs little wit.
Luck that lasts is always suspected.
A person does not seek luck; luck seeks the person.
Sweep the house with a broom in may and you'll sweep the luck of the house away.
When you're out of luck in the coffin making business, no one dies.
When your luck deserts you, even cold food burns.
With tender words you have less luck with a woman than with jewels.
If ill luck were cheese, dairy-women would go wanting work.
Lucky charms protect you only if you have your own luck.
If you are looking for bad luck, you will soon find it.
Storing milk in a sieve, you complain of bad luck?
Bad luck for one man is good luck for another.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
The only sure thing about luck is that it's sure to change.
A man may woo where he will, but he will wed where his luck lies.
Law helps the waking, luck may come to the sleeping.
He that dares not venture must not complain of ill luck.
Too much luck is bad luck.
Luck and laziness go hand in hand.
Good care takes the head off bad luck.
A whistling woman and a crowing hen will bring no luck to the house they are in.
Good luck comes in slender currents, misfortune in a rolling tides.
There is no luck except where there is discipline.
Have luck, and sleep.
Ill luck comes by pounds and goes away by ounces.
You don't need intelligence to have luck, but you do need luck to have intelligence.
Even the luck of a poor man is poor.
Luck belongs to the brave.
Luck brings friends, need tries them.
We have seen a hare, we shall have no luck.
The brave have all the luck.
The luck of idle men sits next to them.
You can give a piece of advice, but not good luck along with that.
Luck is loaned, not owned.
Han'some face and good luck don' trabble de same pass.
Puss an' dog noh have di same luck.
When one dreams of a canoe, there will be no luck the next day.
Better an ounce of luck than a pound of gold.
The worse service, the better luck.
He that has the luck leads the bride to church.
More luck than wit.
Bad luck is fertile.
Those that are afraid of bad luck will never know good.
He that has no ill luck grows weary of good luck.
Where luck is wanting, diligence is useless.
Everybody has a name, but not always the same luck with it.
A stout heart crushes some ill luck.
If it is to be luck, the bull may as well calve as the cow.
One ounce of good luck is better than a ton of brains.
Never confuse wisdom with luck.
There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country.
If the palm of the hand itches it signifies the coming of great luck.
Luck is the idol of the idle.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, you'll want a pin before you die.
There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country.
Good looking and good luck don't always walk the same road.
To wait for luck is the same as waiting for death.
Luck is like having a rice dumpling fly into your mouth.
Sleep and wait for good luck.
A great fortune depends on luck, a small one on diligence.
Covet wealth, and want it; don't, and luck will grant it.
You stored your milk in a straining metal... And now you are complaining about bad luck?
He who moves with each day is better than another who waits for luck.
What is bad luck for one man is good luck for another.
When bad luck chooses you as a companion, even a ripe banana can remove your teeth.
Good luck beats early rising.
Bad luck can't be dated.
Luck has a slender anchorage.
No man can make his own good luck.
An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Luck in the sky and brains in the ground.
You must have good luck to catch hares with a drum.
Luck has much for many, but enough for no one.
Luck taps at the door and inquires whether prudence is within.
Few have luck, all have death.
A bold man has luck in his train.
If bad luck is asleep you must not awaken it.
Luck seeks those who flee and flees those who seek it.
Luck sometimes visits a fool, but it never sits down with him.
Like a snail on a barrel of tar.
The tar of my country is better than the honey of others.
A spoonful of tar in a barrel of honey.
Not all that glitters is gold; not all that is sticky is tar.
All that glitters is not gold, and all that is sticky is not tar.
If tar, hard liquor and sauna do not cure; the disease is fatal.
Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny-worth of tar.
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar.
Do not allow the sheep to die for a halfpenny of tar.
Wet your finger in tar and soon it is all over you.
If a sauna, whiskey and tar do not help, the disease is fatal.
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'pworth of tar.
Made the master but didn't remember to tar his ass.
Don't tell any more fairy tales when the child has gone to sleep.
Dead men tell no tales.
Until the lions have their historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter.
Some who just tell tales of themselves.
Until the lions have their historians, tales of hunting will always glorify the hunter.
Salt comes from north, gold from south and silver from the land of Whites, but the Word of God, the famous things, histories and fairy tales, we only find them in Timbuktu.
To tell tales out of school.
Until lions have their own historians tales of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
A wise person must know the language, sayings, and tales of his society.
Don't ask questions about fairy tales.
Never tell tales out of school.
Tales came like out of the barrel of a machine gun.
When the curry is tasty, the rice is hard.
Tasty food, plenty of food, food in the right time – and peace at mealtimes.
Give a dog a tasty name and eat him.
Tasty fish have to swim three times: once in the water, then in butter, and finally in wine.
More than one mother can make tasty soup.
There's always room for a tasty treat.
There are three tasty morsels: figs, peaches, and melons.
Tasty is the fish on someone else's dish.
The priest's pot is small but tasty.
The fast talker makes mistakes.
A great talker is a great liar.
The talker talks and causes death in his family.
The talker will lead the dog to the meat market.
A smooth talker is a good-for-nothing person.
A great talker may be no fool, but he is one who relies on him.
Leave a great talker in the middle of the street.
Don't chat on the phone - a talker is a great find for a spy.
A great talker may be no fool, but he is one who relies on him.
You don't go into a tavern to say your prayers.
The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully.
Don't take every ill to the doctor, or every quarrel to the lawyer, or every thirst to the tavern.
It does not matter if your tavern sits in a remote location so long as the smell of your wine is appealing.
My money, your money, let us go to the tavern.
If you have a good cellar at home don't go drinking at the tavern.
The world is a tavern and the way hereafter is our home.
Two pipers cannot get on in one tavern.
She hath past the discipline of a Tavern.
Nothing is certain but death and taxes.
No matter how bad a child is, he is still good for a tax deduction.
When the devil grows poor he becomes a tax collector.
Lying pays no tax.
A fly, a harlot, a beggar, a rat, and gusty wind; the village-boss and the tax collector – these seven are always annoying to others.
Death and taxes may be hard to beat.
Diseases are the tax on pleasures.
Rent and taxes never sleep.
There is no tax upon lying.
A good cowman knows how to lie to the tax collector and the cattle buyer.
Only two things in life are certain; death and taxes.
Taxes grow without rain.
All fear has much imagination and little talent.
The hawk with talent hides its talons.
Because of lack of talent in dancing, the floor is blamed.
Talent without skill is like a desert without an oasis.
Express yourself earnestly, and you have no reason for shame even if you lack talent.
Everyone according to their talent and every talent according to its work.
Immortal glory waits on talent.
Emulation is the whetstone of talent.
Talent and poverty, wealth and stupidity generally dwell together.
...God gave me my talent and I was afraid of facing him one day if I didn't use it.
The greatest and rarest talent is to love everything good.
Men for tea, women for talk.
Mango among fruits, pork among meats, tea among leaves.
If man has no tea in him, he is incapable of understanding truth and beauty.
A tea cup on the edge of a well.
The devil was good looking at eighteen, and course tea makes a bitter first cup.
To make the tea cloudy.
Dead with tea and dead without it.
When madame drops her cup of tea it makes no noise.
Three comforts of old age: fire, tea and tobacco.
A bath refreshes the body, tea refreshes the mind.
The guest who seeks special attention muddies the host's tea.
A fool in a hurry drinks tea with a fork.
A hasty man drinks his tea with a fork.
Better to drink the weak tea of a friend than the sweet wine of an enemy.
You can live with tea and cold rice but not with cold words.
Before you study Zen, a bowl is a bowl and tea is tea. While you are studying Zen, a bowl is no longer a bowl and tea is no longer tea. After you've studied Zen, a bowl is again a bowl and tea is tea.
Who picks a tool unsuited to a task should not complain if it does no more than cut the hand that holds it.
It is a hard task to comfort the proud.
Donkeys and women, beat them with a stick, to keep them at task.
When the task accomplished, feel free to take a walk.
Order the lazybones a task and let him give you advice.
It is an easy task to improve upon an invention.
In fact, we are often able to do a task because we think we are able to do it.
Giving a warning to one who is doomed (i.e. a futile task.)
First do your task, then talk about it.
He who tells a tale adds another period.
Until the lion tells his side of the story, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
'tis the taste that tells the tale.
Leave the bad tale where you found it.
A tale is soon told; a deed is not soon done.
The man who comes with a tale about others has himself an ax to grind.
Ye needna mak a causey tale o't.
When the tale of bricks is doubled, then comes Moses.
Every tale can be told in a different way.
Half a tale is enough to a wise man.
A tale never loses in the telling.
There is mony a true tale tald in a jest.
That's my tale where's yours.
Every man's tale is good till anither's be tauld.
I canna afford you both tale and lugs.
Better than gold is a tale rightly told.
One tale is good till another is told.
A good tale is none the worse for being twice told.
The nimblest footman is a false tale.
This is the milkmaid's tale.
There is mony a true tale tauld in jest.
The tale is marred in the telling.
When the tale of bricks is doubled, then Moses makes his appearance.
A tale never loses in the telling.
Dead men tell no tale.
There is no need to fasten a bell to a fool, he is sure to tell his own tale.
The fox uses his tale as a witness.
Taking water from the same well doesn't make all the wives' gravy taste good.
Taking out without putting in, soon comes to the bottom.
Just as a bamboo cane forms a round jet of water, so taking counsel together makes men of one mind.
In taking revenge, a man is but even with his enemy; but in passing it over, he is superior.
Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise.
When one is taking a chicken from its roost, the hen is bound to attack with at least its claws.
When in March sun and water are taking turns with water and sun, the mules end up doing the carrying.
Genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains.
Taking advantage of a murky/confusing situation.
By always taking out and never putting in, the bottom is soon reached.
Talking without thinking is like shooting without taking aim.
Be not water, taking the tint of all colors.
For him who is accustomed to taking giving away is a battle.
He who deliberates fully before taking a step will spend his entire life on one leg.
A man who is putting on his armour for war should not boast like a man who's taking it off.
If you want to perform a good jump, sometimes you need to start by taking a step back.
Always taking Out of the meal-tub, and never putting in, soon comes to the bottom.
After taking ninety-nine years to climb a stairway, the tortoise falls and says there is a curse on haste.
The pig says: give to me and I'll give to you, don't tell me how long it's taking.
Taking a bite of the bread restores your appetite.
Change seeds taking them from different calabashes.
One should not think about it too much when marrying or taking pills.
Taking out and not putting in soon reaches the bottom.
Nothing is gained without taking risks.
He that minds his business at home, will not be accused of taking part in the fray.
Danger can never by overcome without taking risks.
I grew up knowing it's wrong to have more than you need. It means you're not taking care of your people.
Quicker by taking more time.
If we stand tall it is because we stand on the backs of those who came before us.
Alexander the great wasn't tall.
Tall branches are apt to be broken.
Only tall things cast shadows.
Little palm tree, stop crying, you child is the tall palm tree.
However tall the mountain is, there's a road to the top of it.
No matter how tall a camel is, it will never get taller than than the hair on its back.
You've got to do your own growing, no matter how tall your grandfather was.
No matter how tall your grandfather was, you have to do your own growing.
If a child shoots an arrow that reaches the top of a tall palm tree, then it must be that an elderly person carved the arrow for him.
Tall trees catch much wind.
Even a tower a hundred yards tall has still its foundations on the ground.
Pouring water from above the roof of a tall building.
No matter how tall the tree is, its leaves will always fall to the ground.
No matter how tall a tree might grow it will always shed its leaves on the ground.
A person must stand very tall to see their own fate.
No one is so tall that he never needs to stretch, and no one is so short that he never needs to stoop.
No man is so tall that he need never stretch and none so small that he need never stoop.
No cliff is so tall it cannot be climbed.
Not until the tree is felled can you see how tall it was.
A person who underneath the tall palm tree is best positioned to tell on which side the ripe head is.
No one is tall enough to reach up and touch the heavens. No one is broad enough to lift his gaze over the whole earth. [...] But you, who roar like a storm -- may you establish yourself like a lion. [...] No man can bring about your demise.
Whilst the tall maid is stooping, the little one sweeps the house.
History is constantly teaching, but it does not find many pupils.
Each lama has his own teaching.
Teaching is half learning.
We learn by teaching.
Teaching should come from within instead of without.
Teaching a jew to deal in the market is like teaching grandmother to eat her eggs.
In teaching others, we teach ourselves.
Teaching others teacheth yourself.
Teaching a monkey to eat with a fork and knife will never make it a man.
A teacher stands in fear of teaching.
You are teaching iron to swim.
By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn.
You will learn by teaching.
True teaching is not accumulation of knowledge, it is an awakening of consciousness.
Nature comes before teaching.
By teaching, we learn. (Seneca)
There is no thing wickeder than a woman of evil temper.
Lose your temper and you lose a friend; lie and you lose yourself.
Better a patient man than a warrior, one who controls his temper than one who takes a city.
He who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
A short temper is a disadvantage.
Temper your enthusiasm with judgement.
Another city (town) - another temper.
Master your temper lest it masters you.
A person slow to anger has great understanding; one with a quick temper exalts foolishness.
Good habits result from resisting temptation.
Temptation wrings integrity even as the thumbscrew twists a man's fingers.
Constant occupation prevents temptation.
Who avoids temptation avoids sin.
Constant occupation prevents temptation.
Good habits result from resisting temptation.
He who avoids the temptation avoids the sin.
Where there is no temptation there is no glory.
Without temptation there is no victory.
Don't be foolish and awe struck, because foolishness is telling but cursing doesn't hit home.
Death is nature's way of telling you to slow down.
Pray, pray very much; but beware of telling God what you want.
An old man telling lies is like a rich man stealing.
Don't despise someone for telling the truth.
O daughter, i'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it.
The pot telling the kettle it black.
He who asks you to converse ends up telling others that you're shouting.
Don't believe your enemy even when he's telling the truth.
By telling our woes we often assuage them.
A sheik's miracles are of his own telling.
The tale is marred in the telling.
There is nothing more telling than wit.
Knowing but not telling it is what kills old men. Hearing but not heeding it is what kills young men.
O daughter, I'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it.
A tale never loses in the telling.
It is not worth telling a lovely story at the funeral.
Children are fooled by telling that there are monsters around the corner.
Talking about bulls is altogether different from being in the arena.
Gossipers always suspect that others are talking about them.
Talking to one another is loving one another.
I am talking to you, daughter-in-law, so that you could hear it, neighbor.
Speak kindly or refrain you from talking.
Listening well is as powerful as talking well, and is also as essential to true conversation.
When an ant says 'ocean', he's talking about a puddle.
I'm talking to the door, but I want the walls to hear me.
Talking is silver, silence is gold.
Talking about bulls is not the same as facing them in the ring.
One who explains things to an intelligent person need not tire herself out talking.
Horses become acquainted by neighing, people by talking.
Stop talking. Drink.
Talking without thinking is like shooting without taking aim.
Although there exist many thousands of subjects for elegant conversation, there are persons who cannot meet a cripple without talking about feet.
Drinking with a bosom friend, a thousand shots are too few; Talking with a disagreeable person, half a sentence is too many.
Talking without thinking is shooting without aiming.
Married couples who love each other tell each other a thousand things without talking.
Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do.
Talking a mile a minute.
Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do.
When money is talking, the rest of the world shuts up.
Wherever there are women there's talking, and wherever there's geese there's cackling.
Married couples who love each other tell each other a thousand things without talking.
He who likes drinking is always talking of wine.
Talking something over is better than leaving it pending.
Talking comes by nature, silence by wisdom.
If you keep on talking, you will end up saying what you didn't intend to say.
Too much scratching smarts, too much talking harms.
With talking the cheese ship won't move.
Talking is easy, action difficult.
Much talking, much erring.
When you are talking about marriage, think about your mother.
You are talking to a stone.
Talking is silver, silence is golden.
Rice tastes good when properly cooked, and talking is good when the opportunity is ripe.
A mistake proves that at least someone stopped talking long enough to do something.
To climb a tree to catch a fish is talking much and doing nothing.
Love is in blood not in talking.
Much talking does not make you a leader.
If you hear a person talking good about things that aren't in you, don't be sure that he wouldn't also say bad things about things that aren't in you.
Even a stupid one seems wise when he isn't talking.
Silence is gold, talking is silver.
There are three "too much" and three "too little" that can bring a fool down: too much spending and too little money; too much talking and too little knowledge; and too much boasting and too little earnings.
No one likes to eat crumbs from a feast; everyone likes to sit at the table.
Every one has his place: the dead in the cemetery and the living at the table.
Good table, bad will.
Who dangles after the great is the last at table and the first to be cuffed.
At table bashfulness is out of place.
High birth is a poor dish on the table.
At a round table there is no dispute about place.
Sit a beggar at your table and he will soon put his feet on it.
When you're at the dealing table, always look for the sucker– and make sure it isn't you.
When my child and I have eaten -- then clear the table.
A single conversation across the table with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
A poor man's table is soon spread.
Help is always welcome, except at the table.
He who eats and drinks with the rich leaves the table hungry.
Great birth is a very poor dish at table.
Eat beans for lunch and have no friends at the dinner table.
I have nothing for dinner, sit down to table.
Who depends on another man's table often dines late.
The living are denied a table; the dead get a whole coffin.
When the cat's away, the rats dance on the table.
What matters is the menu on the table now.
Have no respect at table and in bed.
A friend to my table and wine is no good neighbor.
Invite a peasant to your table and he'll put his feet on it.
A glass for the vodka, for the beer a mug, and for the table, cheerful company.
A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table.
When the cat is not home, the mice dance on the table.
That which is said at the table should be wrapped up in the tablecloth.
When problems visit a man it arrives with its own bed and table.
Homely in the cradle, pretty at the table.
Welcome is the best dish on the table.
Noble birth is a poor dish at table.
Don't eat your bread on someone else's table.
Who talks a lot at the table will leave it hungry.
Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop, only a few sit down to his table.
I hate a jovial table companion with a good memory.
A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table.
When there is little bread at table put plenty on your plate.
This is not my table.
At table keep short hand; in company keep a short tongue.
The bed of the Dominicans, the table of the Capuccins, and the luxury of the Benedictines.
There is no table without wine nor sermon without Augustine.
A table is not blessed if it has fed no scholars.
Where love sets the table food tastes at its best.
The unqualified man desires to climb to the top; the bad man desires to sit at the head of the table.
Where McGregor sits, there is the head of the table.
Welcome is the best dish on the table.
Homely in the cradle, pretty at the table.
For a young man contemplating marriage: That you might have nicer legs than your own under your table before the new spuds are up.
Woe to him whose betrayer sits at his table.
Don't eat your bread on someone Else's table.
How could the boots get on the table.
Where macgregor sits is head of the table.
Where MacGregor sits at the head of the table.
The fault of another is a good teacher.
A teacher is better than two books.
The strictness of the teacher is better to bear than the prejudice of the father.
If children's prayer had any effect, there wouldn't be a single teacher alive.
If the teacher be corrupt, the world will be corrupt.
The world is a good teacher, but it charges a huge fee.
Necessity is a great teacher.
A teacher will appear when the student is ready.
Better than a thousand days of diligent study is one day with a great teacher.
He who is his own teacher has a fool for his pupil.
"History is the teacher of life.”.
Our first teacher is our own heart.
A wise teacher makes learning a joy.
When the pupil is ready to learn, a teacher will appear.
He who flatters me is my enemy, who blames me is my teacher.
You can't become a teacher before your taught.
Time is a teacher.
A severely under paid hungry teacher in a renovated, well-equipped classroom, can perform just as well as a bird without feathers can do in a hanging, decorated cage.
Whoever cares to learn will always find a teacher.
Experience is the teacher of jesters and the intelligence of the wise.
More is to be got from one teacher than from two books.
He who undertakes to be his own teacher has a fool for a pupil.
Experience is the best teacher.
Necessity is a great teacher.
One is equally indebted to one's teacher and to God.
Do what your teacher says but not what he does.
Experience is the best teacher.
If the pupil is smart, the teacher gets the credit.
A teacher stands in fear of teaching.
Experience is the best teacher.
The teacher has not taught, until the student has learned.
Who tells me of my faults is my teacher; who tells me of my virtues does me harm.
A severely under paid hungry teacher.
Necessity is the greatest teacher... A szükség a legnagyobb tanítómester.
Experience is the best teacher.
Roses grow where a teacher hits.
"Experience is the best teacher." (i.e., "Practice makes perfect.")
The elephant that is stuck in the mud will tear down the tree with it.
A tear in the eye is a wound in the heart.
The butterfly that brushes against thorns will tear its wings.
An old man with a torn sleeve never dishonored anyone.
Every tear has a smile behind it.
The dog will always attack the one with torn trousers.
Curious Varvara's nose was torn off.
If love is torn apart you cannot stitch the pieces together again.
A naked man will often laugh at someone with torn clothes.
Better an ache than a tear.
It's easier to tear a hole than to mend one.
A true gentleman would rather have his clothes torn than mended.
A wide garment does not tear, a proverb does not spoil.
Nothing dries sooner than a tear.
Wide will wear, but tight will tear.
Do not tear down the east wall to repair the west wall.
Don't put gold buttons on a torn coat.
Breed up a crowand he will tear out your eyes.
If you cannot heal the wound, do not tear it open.
It is a base thing to tear a dead lion's beard off.
A tear bedews my Delia's eye, From morn till dewy eve; But if you ask the reason why, She can't tell, I believe.
Love your neighbor, but don't tear down your fence.
A small tear relieves a great sorrow.
Mad dogs get their skin torn.
An eager dog often gets a torn skin.
Eyes that you have made cry, cry; so it's no wonder if they tear.
A child's tear rends the heavens.
Nosy Barbara's nose was torn off at the market.
A biting cur wears a torn skin.
Nothing dries up more quickly than a tear.
With tender words you have less luck with a woman than with jewels.
Let him eat the tough morsel who eat the tender.
The tender surgeon makes the wound gangrene.
Who is tender in everything is a fool in everything.
Stock-fish are made tender by much beating.
Tender surgeons make foul wounds.
For tender almonds go to Aragona, to see beautiful young girls go to Favara.
Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law can be cooked together but they will never be tender.
The tender winds of February will be paid in March.
Taking water from the same well doesn't make all the wives' gravy taste good.
You must judge a woman by the taste of her soup.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
A different man, a different taste.
Who has not had a taste longs to do so, but for whom has tasted then the longing is a hundred times more.
Hunger drives good taste away.
Only love gives us the taste of eternity.
Even honey can taste bitter if it's used as medicine.
All cassavahs have the same skins but not all taste the same.
If there was not bad taste, goods would not be sold.
Something that looks good does not necessarily taste good.
One mouth doesn't taste the beer.
The taste of cold water after drinking, is a pleasure that the teetotaler will never know.
Good medicine often has a bitter taste.
'tis the taste that tells the tale.
A little knowledge is dangerous. Drink deep, or taste not the puritan waters.
Labour has a bitter root, but a sweet taste.
To the donkey thorns taste better than hay.
Although pepper is tiny, its taste is intense.
Every man to his taste, as the man sayed when he kiss'd his cou.
A spoon does not know the taste of soup, nor a learned fool the taste of wisdom.
Scratch an old woman's back and she will let you taste her pepper pot.
Coffee and love taste best when hot.
To the satiated bird, cherries taste bitter.
Taste in variety, variety in taste.
Envy for a friend is like the taste of a sour pumpkin.
Every one to his taste.
Every worm to his taste.
A lazy fly cannot have a taste of a fresh wound.
It's not the aroma of the soup that tells you whether it's sweet or not, but it's the tongue's taste.
Crumb not your bread before you taste your porridge.
When the fruit is scarcest, its taste is sweetest.
Fish, to taste right, must swim 3 times -- in water, in butter and in wine.
Fish, to taste good, must swim three times: in water, in butter, and in wine.
Nothing improves the taste of pasta more than a good appetite.
He deserves not the sweet that will not taste the sour.
When a woman prepares a dish which others find unpalatable, she says that she prepared it to suit her own taste.
Who wanders all the moors will taste all the berries.
Judge wine by its taste, and bread by its color.
At the pharmacy don't taste, at the blacksmith's don't touch.
To a depraved taste sweet is bitter.
The tiger that has once tasted blood is never sated with the taste of it.
It takes taste to account for taste.
It is the essence of good taste to do that which is consistent with our position.
When the soul hungers, even bitter things taste sweet.
Egotist: a person of low taste, more interested in himself than in me. (Ambrose Bierce)
If you steal from a thief, you also have a taste of it.
Taste is like the buttocks, divided.
Really got my mouth taste good when I talked with you.
To taste the sweet, you must taste the bitter.
A lemon that grows in ripening, is not agreeable (i.e., does not taste well).
Each to his own taste.
Every man to his taste.
To taste the sweet, you must taste the bitter.
In old men there is no taste, in young no insight.
Every man to his taste.
For a taste treat, try tuna roe and thorny cardoons.
It doesn't taste much like pine or aspen.
Nine other flavors and the taste of shit the tenth.
There's no accounting for taste.
Thick body, weak soul.
Clear accounts and thick chocolate.
Only men with thick lips should smoke a cigar.
There's no reason to walk on the branches when the trunk is so thick.
Blood is thick than water.
Irishwomen have a dispensation from the pope to wear the thick ends of their legs downwards.
Thick wine is better than clear water.
Lay it on thick and some of it will stick.
Give a naked man a piece of cloth and he will say it is too thick.
A family is like a thick forest, often from outside its dense, when your inside each tree has its own position.
Faults are thick where love is thin. (1659)
Faults are thick where love is thin.
There is thick sandal leather on his face.
They that have got good store of butter may lay it thick on their bread.
They asked the wolf: "Why is your neck thick?", and it said: "I do my job myself, that's why."
Through thick and thin, both over bank and bush.
Plaster thick, some will stick.
Through thick and thin, both over Hill and Plain.
The tulip is, among flowers, what the peacock is among birds. A tulip lacks scent, a peacock has an unpleasant voice. The one takes pride in its garb, the other in its tail.
The sieve says to the needle, "You have a hole in your tail."
If an eel is with fish, he shows his tail; if he is with snakes, he shows his head.
Don't cut off the monkey's tail before it is dead.
Do not dispose of the monkey's tail before he is dead.
A cow that has no tail should not try to chase away flies.
It is better to be the head of a mouse, then the tail of a lion.
He who gives a monkey as a present doesn't keep hold of its tail.
If you have a tail of straw, then keep away from the fire.
Better to be an ant's head than a lion's tail.
You can't make horn of a pig's tail.
A dog will not make himself look like a horse just by cutting off his tail.
The dog's tail stays crooked even if he is buried for twelve years.
Where the devil cannot put his head he puts his tail.
There is no dog, be he ever so wicked, but wags his tail.
A poor old horse will have a worn out tail.
Don't measure a wolf's tail until he is dead.
Wherever the head goes, the tail will follow.
People seek out big shots as flies seek out the elephant's tail.
When you are in a pack of hounds, you either bark or wag your tail.
There is nothing as eloquent as a rattlesnake's tail.
You can't kill a dog just to save a cat's tail.
A garden without a fence is like a dog without a tail.
Where you see the tail, there is the mouse.
The dog says: "master, my life is far too good, hurt me in the tail.”.
If the tail of the dog can save me, I don't care about its stench.
Even the elephant can fan off flies with its short tail.
My dog slaps you with his tail and bites you with his teeth.
The tail can't shake the dog.
Don't ignore the small things - the kite flies because of its tail.
That is the lion's tail, do not play with it.
The higher the monkey goes the more he shows his tail.
Who takes an eel by the tail or a woman by her word, grasp as he will, holds nothing fast.
She wipes the plate with the cat's tail.
The day will come when the cow will have use for her tail.
They said to the fox, the fox said to its tail.
You can't make a good shaft of a pig's tail.
The master orders the man, the man orders the cat, and the cat orders her tail.
The ass dead, the corn at his tail.
The ass does not know the value of his tail till he has lost it.
Play with an ass, and he will slap your face with his tail.
By joining the tail to the trunk one makes up the whole elephant.
The dog's tail, even if buried for twelve years, will remain as crooked as ever.
Who takes an eel by the tail and a woman at her word, may say he holds nothing.
Even the dog gets bread by wagging his tail.
The ass does not know the worth of this tail till he has lost it.
He who has a straw tail is always in fear of its catching fire.
Do not give the dog bread every time he wags his tail.
Through being too knowing the fox lost his tail.
The tail is always the hardest part to flay.
The more you stroke the cat's back the more set sets up her tail.
Better be the head of a cat than the tail of a lion.
Better be the head of a lizard than the tail of a dragon.
Let every fox take care of his own tail.
Let every one keep off the flies with his own tail.
If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean.
It is idle to swallow the cow and choke on the tail.
A peacock has too little in its head, too much in its tail.
One goat cannot carry another goat's tail.
Nobody lift the dog's tail when it defecates.
Monkey mus' know weh ‘im gwine put ‘im tail, before ‘im order trousiz.
Better the head of a village than the tail of a town.
Winter either bites with its teeth or lashes with its tail.
The fish was so fresh that it was being cooked while its tail was still in the sea.
The fox goes through the corn and does not eat, but brushes it down with his tail.
If you pull one pig by the tail all the rest squeak.
That mouse will have a tail.
He who recovers but the tail of his cow does not lose all.
Better be the head of a rat than the tail of a lion.
A pig's tail will never make a good arrow.
Keeping a woman to her word is like trying to hold an eel by its tail.
Better be a tail for the lions than the head of the foxes.
To remove the hairs from a horse's tail, one by one must be plucked out.
Don't catch a leopard by the tail, but if you do, don't let it go.
The tail and repentance go behind.
A monkey left behind laughs at the others tail.
A snake that swallows his friend will have a tail sticking out of his mouth.
God swats flies for an animal that has no tail.
The lizard would like to stand erect, but his tail will not permit him.
Every fox praises its tail.
IF you are buying a cow, make sure that the price of the tail is included.
The tail of the cow watches to the right and left.
De higher de monkey climb, de more he does show he tail.
Do not step on the dog's tail, and he will not bite you.
The dog that wags its tail won't be beaten.
A rat who gnaws at a cat's tail invites destruction.
Don't let your tongue or your paintbrush wag your tail when they are making up an inventory.
Would rather be a chicken's head than a phoenix's tail.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
These youth taught their mother to give birth.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
You teach the dolphin to swim!
You do not teach the paths of the forest to an old gorilla.
You know, you teach. You do not know, you learn.
The young cannot teach tradition to the old.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
Teach your tongue to say "I don't know” instead of to make up something.
The cub does not teach the Wolf.
We taught them how to beg, they raced us to the gates.
We taught them to pray, they got to the mosque before us.
Crabs teach their offspring to walk straight.
Don't teach the tiger cub to eat meat.
Do not correct with a strike that which can be taught with a kiss.
A cat will teach her young ones all the tricks, except how to jump backwards.
The eye will often wander the road that love has taught.
You do not teach a giraffe to run.
No man is so young he cannot teach, or so old he cannot learn.
You can't teach an old dog how to gnaw a bone.
To teach is also to learn.
If God breaks your leg, he will teach you how to limp.
Honour the old, teach the young.
Three things that can't be taught: generosity, poetry and a singing voice.
One may teach another to speak, but none can teach another to hold his peace.
In a place without dogs they teach the cats to bark.
Our parents taught us to speak and the world taught us to be silent.
If women were not vain, men could teach them how to be.
It is difficult to teach a cow to climb a tree.
Teach a crocodile to swim.
The work will teach you how to do it.
All knowledge is not taught in one school.
Siberia will teach.
If you teach a hutu in flinging a spear he will definitely send it into your stomach.
What johnny will not teach himself, johnny will never know.
Do not teach a learned person.
An ounce of wit that's bought Is worth a pound that's taught.
In the end we will conserve only what we love; we will love only what we understand; we will understand only what we are taught.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
Whatever you teach, be brief; what is quickly said the mind readily receives and faithfully retains, while everything superfluous runs over as from a full container. Who knows much says least.
In teaching others, we teach ourselves.
Never offer to teach a fish to swim.
Speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee.
There is no way to teach a machine wisdom after folly.
Parents and children teach one another.
Teach your descendants the two proper roads - literature and farming.
Teach your son in the front garden and your wife on the pillow.
You do not teach the paths of the forest to an old gorilla.
You cannot think you could teach a fish to swim.
You can't become a teacher before your taught.
He who is intelligent is taught.
It's the big birds that teach the young ones to flight.
Give me a fish and I will eat today, teach me to fish and I will eat for a lifetime.
You have to be smarter than the dog to teach him tricks.
Eggs can't teach the hen.
By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn.
You can't teach grandma to suck eggs.
Don't drown the man who taught you to swim.
He who knows not and knows not that he knows not is a fool. Shun him. He who knows not and knows that he knows not is a child. Teach him. He who knows and knows not that he knows is asleep. Wake him. He who knows and knows that he knows is a wise man. Follow him.
I taught him archery everyday, and when he got good at it he throw an arrow at me.
A man conducts himself abroad as he has been taught at home.
It is not for the swan to teach eaglets to sing.
Water quenches the thirst but does not teach you how to sing.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
No need to teach an eagle to fly.
He who knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is a fool, shun him; He who knows not, and knows that he knows not, is a child, teach him. He who knows, and knows not that he knows, is asleep, wake him. He who knows, and knows that he knows, is wise, follow him.
He who does not teach his son a trade teaches him to steal.
Teach your grandame to suck eggs.
Teach thy tongue to say, "I do not know."
I shall teach you to pipe into glove.
Time shall teach thee all things.
You can't teach old dogs to sit.
The young should be taught, the old should be honored.
Experience may teach a fool.
Who does not obey the parents' word will be taught by the world.
If you plan for a year, plant kalo. If you plan for ten years, plant koa. If you plan for one-hundred years, teach the children.
Pigs and children will turn out the way you teach them.
In time, even a bear can be taught to dance.
It is hard to teach old dogs to bark.
Well fed but ill taught.
Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs.
Don't teach fishes to swim.
Do not teach a pike to swim, a pike knows his own science.
Eggs cannot teach a hen.
By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn.
Taught in the same school.
Teach an eagle to fly, a dolphin to swim.
Religion must be taught, not forced.
Talk of the devil and he's sure to appear.
We have two ears and one mouth that we may listen the more and talk the less.
One must talk little, and listen a lot.
When you talk about the sun, you will see her beams.
It's bad manners to talk about ropes in the house of a man whose father was hanged.
Talk of the wolf and behold his skin.
Don't talk about others, they won't talk about you.
Beat a chinese long enough and he will talk tibetan.
Not everything that is good to eat is good to talk about.
Men for tea, women for talk.
Talk of the Devil, and he is bound to appear.
If you talk to an official you must talk rubles.
Better one timely squawk than constant talk.
The talkers aren't strong; the strong don't talk.
Excessive talk is sure to include errors.
Let us sit bent, but talk straight.
The squirrel does not talk back to the elephant.
From a pound of talk, an ounce of understanding.
Talk about things of tomorrow and the mice inside the ceiling laugh.
The people who talk the best are not the only ones who can tell you the most interesting things.
After three days without reading, talk becomes flavorless.
You talk sweet like the bulbul bird.
One must talk little and listen much.
People should not talk while they are eating or pepper may go down the wrong way.
Talk is cheap but it takes money to buy whiskey.
A bird is known by his note and a man by his talk.
To talk without thinking is to shoot without aiming.
Be sure to have a controversial opinion, and men will talk about you.
He is a bad workman who cannot talk of work.
Great talk and little action.
Talk doesn't fill the stomach.
Don't talk about a rope in the house of someone whose father was hung.
Talk of the devil - and the devil appears.
Beware of a man that does not talk and a dog that does not bark.
Good talk saves the food.
Talk of a wolf and the wolf appears.
Don't talk with your mouth full.
To sing to the deaf, to talk with the dumb, and to dance for the blind are three foolish things.
Wise men talk about ideas, intellectuals about facts, and the ordinary man talks about what he eats.
He who wants to talk with the dogs must learn to bark.
It is easy for someone to talk about fasting when he has a full belly.
With a full belly it is easy to talk about fasting.
If sorrow would not talk it would die.
An old man is there to talk.
Don't poop in a field and don't talk in a forest.
Talk doesn't plow the field.
You can tell an educated person by their talk and bells by their ringing.
Bygone troubles are a pleasure to talk about.
Much talk, little work.
Talk of the devil and you hear his bones rattle.
Talk of the wolf and his tail appears.
Don't talk latin before the franciscans.
Don't talk too much, because your ignorance is greater than your knowledge.
If you talk too much you're likely to give yourself away.
Don't talk too much-your ignorance exceeds your knowledge.
All mouth and no trousers. All talk and no action.
Do not talk Arabic in the house of a Moor.
With a frog in the well you don't talk about the ocean.
It's not the fault of the parrot, but of the one who teaches him to talk.
One timely shout is better than constant talk.
When you talk about the sun, you will see her beams.
Don't talk unless you can improve the silence.
In age, talk; in childhood, tears.
It does not pay to talk a lot.
The sin for which you repent is the father of virtue; but a virtue that you talk about, is the mother of sin.
One must talk little, and listen much.
If you can walk, you can dance; If you can talk, you can sing.
Young people talk of what they are doing; old people of what they have done; and fools of what they have a mind to do.
Talk well of your friends and of your enemies say nothing.
Many talk like philosophers yet live like fools.
The less people think the more they talk.
If you can walk you can dance, if you can talk you can sing.
Talk does mek talk.
Victims of the same disease have a lot to talk about.
Once we meet and talk, we are brothers and sisters.
When with dwarfs, do not talk about pygmies.
When people only talk about things they understand then a great silence will descend upon the world.
To talk much and arrive nowhere is the same as climbing a tree to catch a fish.
The conversation of the wise concerns ideas; that of the intelligent is about ideas; the common folk talk about food.
Talk does not cook rice.
Scholars talk books, butchers talk pigs.
To talk goodness is not good . . . only to do it is.
To listen well is as powerful a means of influence as to talk well and is as essential to all true conversation.
A wound will heal. Talk won't.
A whisper has more meaning than a noisy talk.
The mouth that eats should not talk, for it risks swallowing a fly.
To travel is to see, to return is to talk.
Something that doesn't talk how does it refuse.
Thank who gives you and give who thanks you.
Get down on your knees and thank God you're still on your feet.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not having given it wings.
Thank you, pretty pussy, was the death of my cat.
A blind man will not thank you for a looking glass.
A one-eyed person does not thank god until he meets a blind person at prayer.
Who does not thank for a little will not thank for a lot.
You can't put "thank you” in your pocket.
A guest has not to thank the host, but the host the guest.
Before eating, always take time to thank the food.
To take revenge on an enemy, give him an elephant -- first he must thank you for the gift, and then the elephant's appetite will deplete your enemy's resources.
We ain't what we want to be; we ain't what we gonna be; but thank God, we ain't what we was.
A blind man will not thank you for a looking-glass.
Think and thank god.
People don't thank someone who doesn't thank God.
If you can't reward then you should thank.
Who receives, should thank; who gives, should be silent.
One cannot make a fur coat from a "Thank you.”.
Don't blame God for creating the tiger -- instead, thank him for not giving it wings.
I want to thank you in an empty church and dry saloon.
The beginning is always difficult, but in the end stands the thank.
I thank myself 'cause the others won't do it.
Lo does not thank for little will thank for much.
Day will not break thanks to the cackling of the chicken.
When the king reigns it is thanks to the people; when a river sings it's thanks to the stones.
Thank who gives you and give who thanks you.
Lang tarrying taks a' the thanks awa'.
A forced kindness deserves no thanks.
God heals and the doctor has the thanks.
Old thanks are not for new gifts.
The one-eyed man thanks God only when he sees a man blind in both eyes.
Poor thanks is the way of the world.
It is the belly which daily gives thanks.
He loses his thanks who promises and delays.
He loses his thanks who promises and delays.
Never give thanks for a favor held back.
Thanks cost nothing.
The water can only flow thanks to the well.
A forced kindness deserves no thanks.
Thanks is poor pay on which to keep a family.
Unwilling service earns no thanks.
Old thanks cannot be used for new gifts.
Thanks to one small candle the whole of Moscow burns.
There is nothing like deprivation to generate thanks for small mercies.
God, healeth, and the physician hath the thanks.
No thanks attach to a kindness long deferred.
For a paltry gift, little thanks.
When the king reigns it is thanks to the people.
Never give thanks for a favor held back.
It is the belly which daily gives thanks.
Thanks is poor pay on which to keep a family.
Thanks to the word of his personal god, the fate of the man who speaks just words is favourable, and he is with him throughout the day.
A man may die old at thirty and young at eighty.
He that at twenty is not, at thirty knows not, and at forty has not, will never be, nor ever know, nor ever have.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
He that is not gallant at twenty, strong at thirty, rich at forty, or experienced at fifty, will never be gallant, strong, rich, or prudent.
He who at thirty has no brains, will never purchase an estate.
One man driven by distress does as much as thirty.
He who does not have common sense at age thirty will never have it.
A tree that has grown bent for thirty years cannot be straightened in one year.
A woman gets thirty percent of her beauty from nature and seventy percent from makeup.
A horse aged thirty: don't add any more years.
Who has never had good sense, and by age thirty still doesn't, certainly will never have it after that.
From twenty to thirty, neither pulling nor pushing, from thirty on up a woman is of no further use.
There are some with thirty, some with thirty-one, with twenty-eight there is but one.
A woman of thirty is not tempted by the devil.
In Russia every day is of thirty hours.
He who at twenty understands nothing, at thirty knows nothing, and at forty has nothing, will lead a wretched old age.
Before thirty, men seek disease after thirty, disease seeks men.
Candlemas, Candlemas, whether windy or rainy, winter has ended. And if the weather is good, winter will last another thirty days.
Only thin dogs become wild.
The sat one doesn't understand the hungry one: for one the soup is too thin, for the other - the pearls are too small.
It will snap where it's the thinnest.
Where something is thin, that's where it tears.
Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat.
If you are born fat you will not die thin.
The rope will break where it is thinnest.
The rope breaks where it is thinnest.
A thin cat and a fat woman are the shame of a household.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
Fat cats and thin birds can share a yard, but thin cats and fat birds no way.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
A rope parts where it is thinnest.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
Even if the elephant is thin he is still the lord of the jungle.
Faults are thick where love is thin. (1659)
Better thin beer than an empty jug.
The poor man's corm always grows thin.
Sow thin and mow thin.
Many children and little food make thin smoerbroeds.
A fat cow makes a thin calf.
There is a thin line between love and hate.
Through thick and thin, both over bank and bush.
A rope parts where is thinnest.
Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat.
A thin cat and a fat woman are the shame of a household.
Sow thin, shear thin. (Strauss, 1998 p. 1158)
Through thick and thin, both over Hill and Plain.
Who gets married to a thin woman will know bitterness and strife, who marries a plump woman will be contented at the table and sleeping chamber.
He who took the donkey up to the roof should bring it down.
Your whole destiny is involved in the attitude you take toward your sin.
Don't take rich people as examples.
God gave, God took back.
Take care of your pennies and your dollars will take care of your widow's next husband.
If you are going to go where corn grows, take a cutting tool with you.
When we take one step toward to God, he takes seven steps toward us.
Whatever your uncle gives you, take.
Take a big bite, don't say a big word.
Take together, it will not be heavy.
Without seeing the mountain, do not tuck up your skirt, without seeing the water, do not take off your boots.
Ask a lot, but take what is offered.
These three take crooked ways: carts, boats, and musicians.
People give, but don't be in a hurry to take.
Only take away the wife of a strong man when he is out.
If the walls were adamant, gold would take the town.
When the ducks are quacking the frogs take it as a warning.
You will never drown where you always take a bath.
"an egg is an egg,” said the beadle, but he took the goose-egg.
He is bad that will not take advice, but he is a thousand times worse that takes every advice.
It's hard to take britches off bare hips.
What's in the marrow is hard to take out of the bone.
A real scoundrel turned up and they took off their hats to him.
Often the best way of giving oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has.
Don't just take love, experience it.
You can't take blood from a stone.
What you've brought for me, take for your aunt.
No word is ill spoken, that is not ill taken.
It is easier to take a couple of drinks than to refuse them.
Blessings brighten as they take their flight.
To him who can take what thou hast, give what he asks.
You can't take the milk back from the coffee.
Too much hurry, and get there tomorrow; take time, get there today.
If you don't take it, you don't have it.
You can take a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
You can take the boy out of the country but you can't take the country out of the boy.
Take counsel before it goes ill, lest it go worse.
Take off your hat to your yesterdays; take off your coat for your tomorrows.
If you take it together, it will not be heavy.
There are only two types of Chinese -- those who give bribes and those who take them.
Don't take any wooden nickles.
When you take a knife away from a child, give him a piece of wood instead.
He who follows his own advice must take the consequences.
Sleeping shrimp gets taken by the current.
If you take big paces you leave big spaces.
He who couldn't overcome the donkey took on the saddle.
Be patient with a bad neighbor. Maybe he'll leave or a disaster will take him out.
Don't reject the crooked road and don't take the straight one, instead take the one traveled by the ancestors.
Take the bull by the horns and the man at his word.
They only fall asleep after having mutually taken an oath and then they betray each other.
Don't take a second mouthful before you have swallowed the first.
Don't take another mouthful before you have swallowed what is in your mouth.
Those who rush things too much, without reflection, can be surpassed by those who take their time.
Often the best way to give oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has.
They have taken the cow by the horns in order to milk it better.
The bull should be taken by the horns, a man at his word.
You take a bull by the horns and a man by his words.
You cannot take hawks without climbing some cliffs.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Take care how you beseech the Gods for a gift, for they will give it to you.
If you take of your clothes for water you must bathe.
If you are offered a span, do not take a couple of yards.
Don't take a golden sword to cut a radish.
If an opportunity is not taken when it comes, it passes away.
To get through the hardest journey we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping.
Those who take medicine and neglect their diet waste the skill of the physician.
A bird only flies as high as his wings take him.
Without investigating the water, don't take off your shoes.
At that particular time a mad person gives you something take it immediately before he changes is mind.
If you don't know where your going to then any road will take you where you're going.
He who predicts or prophesise isn't the one who causes his predictions to take shape.
It may take a lot of time to fabricate a lie but the truth only takes seconds to elevate.
There's no advice like father's -- even if you don't take it.
Take all you want, but eat all you take.
Take care of the dimes and the dollars will take care of themselves.
Fate can be taken by the horns, like a goat, and pushed in the right direction.
He who can take advice is sometimes superior to those who give it.
If you take care of your character, your reputation will take care of itself.
Take a friend for what he does, a wife for what she has, and goods for what they are worth.
Take the bitter with the sweet.
Take heed you find not what you do not seek.
A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool.
Take heed is a fair thing.
Riches take away more pleasures than they give.
Take wisdom from the wise - not everyone who rides a horse is a jockey.
The wolf is upset about what he left behind, and the shepherd is upset about what he took away.
He who would leap high must take a long run.
You may often feel that heavily on your back which you took lightly on your conscience.
Moscow does not believe in tears.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will spare yourself one hundred days of tears.
Tears have meaning but only he who sheds them understands.
Wealth can give legs to the cripple, beauty to the ugly, and sympathy to tears.
Where something is thin, that's where it tears.
The tears of the adulteress are ever ready to be shed.
The tears running down your face do not blind you.
My skirt with tears is always wet: I have forgotten to forget.
When the bag tears, the shoulders get a rest.
A Word makes no hole, a pinch tears no underskirt.
Don't be misled by the tears of a beggar.
The eyes of all cheats are full of tears.
Men prone to tears are good.
The washerman never tears his father's clothes.
Love begins with song and music and ends in a sea of tears.
Nothing dries faster than tears.
He wastes his tears who weeps before the judge.
Nothing dries quicker than tears.
What soap is for the body, tears are for the soul.
Women's tears are fountains of malice.
A pound's worth of tears will not settle a penny's worth of debt.
There is no earthly bliss not watered by tears.
A woman's heart dries quicker than her tears.
A wise man sees only water in the tears of a woman.
Tears come more often from the eyes than from the heart.
The tears of strangers are only water.
A woman's tears are worth a lot, but cost little.
If the heart is sad, tears will flow.
Nothing dries sooner than tears.
When you die, your sister's tears will dry as time goes on, your widow's tears will end in another's arms, but your mother will mourn you until the day she dies.
Onions, smoke and women bring tears to your eyes.
In age, talk; in childhood, tears.
Whoever tears his clothes must mend them himself.
Two barrels of tears will not heal a bruise.
A small cottage wherein laughter lives is worth more than a castle full of tears.
A child who is fearless is going to bring tears to his mother's eyes.
Dry thunder that tears the sky doesn't make you forget the storm of yesterday.
The tears of a man flow into the stomach.
The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes didn't have tears.
Tears never flow in the house of a coward.
If a man makes soup of his tears, ask him not for broth.
Nothing wipes your tears away but your own hand.
Too much happiness brings tears in our eyes.
Those who judge before they know the facts will learn to shed tears.
Candour once went further boldly and in smiles, but it crept home in tatters and tears.
A ripple of laughter is worth a flood of tears.
If there were no tears, our ribs would burn.
Love's plant must be watered with tears, and tended with care.
Who bathes his hands in blood will have to wash them with tears.
Nothing dries sooner than tears.
Sweet are the tears that are dried by your loved one.
Women's tears are a fountain of craft.
God counts her tears.
The cure for anything is salt water - sweat, tears, or the sea.
A farmer does not conclude by the mere look of it that a corn is unripe; he tears it open for examination.
The tears of a man drop onto his chest.
The widow's sons have not tears.
You will shed tears with one eye like a monkey.
Like soap for the body so are tears for the soul.
In youth, one has tears without grief; in age, grief without tears.
Nothing dries so fast as tears.
We use to live and spill tears, now we live and build happiness.
Patience begins with tears and ends with a smile.
Learn from your tears and you will win laughing.
The pearls of a bride on her wedding day are the tears that will be shed later.
The tears of an heir are laughter under a mask.
The laughter, the tears, and the song of a woman are equally deceptive.
Tears are at times as eloquent as words.
Repentant tears wash out the stain of guilt.
The excess of mirth leads to tears.
The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes had no tears.
The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes had no tears.
A ripple of laughter is worth a flood of tears.
Men must sew up tears with gentleness.
The world is an ocean of tears.
When the tide of misfortune moves over you, even jelly will break your teeth.
A cat in her house has the teeth of a lion.
God gives almonds to one who has no teeth.
He is a fool who marries an old woman without teeth.
The teeth of the puppy are growing, while the old dog is gnawing bones.
The teeth are smiling, but is the heart?
If you are not going to bite, don't show your teeth.
In the village that you don't know, the chickens have teeth.
Teeth will never quarrel with the tongue.
I will not bite any dog,” says the shepherd's dog, "for I must save my teeth for the wolf.
They don't count the teeth of a gift horse.
One doesn't examine the teeth of a gift horse.
The tongue is safe; even among thirty teeth.
The teeth and the tongue are close neighbors, and yet they sometimes bite each other.
The teeth sometimes bite the tongue.
Allah gives dried beans to eat to him who has no teeth left.
He who eats when he is full digs his grave with his teeth.
If you had teeth of steel, you could eat iron coconuts.
The only difference between the cucumber and water is the moving of the teeth.
The teeth that laugh are also those that bite.
A woman without teeth shall be left to the lions.
If you have no teeth, do not break the clay cooking pot.
Do not roast baobab kernels and leave those who have teeth chewing.
Even if the old woman has no teeth, her tiger nuts remain in her own bag.
The tongue is soft but constantly remains; the teeth are hard yet they fall out.
My dog slaps you with his tail and bites you with his teeth.
A fish with teeth tastes the same as fish without.
Don't use your teeth when you can untie the knot with your fingers.
The mouth of an elderly man is without teeth, but never without words of wisdom.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
Closer than the closeness of the teeth to the tongue.
That miller is honest who has hair on his teeth.
God gives nuts to who has no teeth.
I want more for my teeth than for my relations.
God has given nuts to some who have no teeth.
A hundred-year-old revenge still has its baby teeth.
Even a frog would bite if it had teeth.
Teeth placed before the tongue give good advice.
The God who gave us teeth will also give us bread.
Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache.
Time has strong teeth.
Marriage has teeth and it bites hard.
Marriage has teeth, and him bite very hot.
Winter either bites with its teeth or lashes with its tail.
Men dig their graves with their teeth.
Dogs have teeth in all countries.
Standing with the mouth full of teeth.
Greedy eaters dig their graves with their teeth.
A toad too would like to crack nuts, but he has no teeth.
Other people's money has sharp teeth.
The teeth are not match for the nut.
The smith's dog sleeps at the noise of the hammer, and wakes at the grinding of teeth.
Dog eats excreta, but goat gets rotten teeth.
Green maize abounds at the houses of those without teeth.
Every skin teeth ain't a laugh.
You can hate the dog, but do not tell him that his teeth are dirty.
The tongue hurts more than the teeth.
Almond nuts come to those who have no teeth.
If the lips are gone, the teeth will grow cold.
A juicy bone is useless to a dog with no teeth.
A restless grasshopper eventually ends up in a birds teeth.
The teeth that stink together are the ones to bite the meat.
Teeth are all friends among each other.
We have never seen the earth show her teeth.
Those who master to climb trees with their teeth are in better position to tell which barks are bitter.
The teeth that cannot move in unison cannot bit a piece of meat.
No matter how sharp your teeth are, you can't bite water.
When bad luck chooses you as a companion, even a ripe banana can remove your teeth.
Follow not truth too near the heels lest it dash out your teeth.
It is better to keep a wolf out of the fold than to trust drawing his teeth and talons after he shall have entered.
People are equal like the teeth of a comb..
God sends clothes to those with no proper figure, and bread to those with no teeth.
Young dogs have sharp teeth.
The teeth often bite the tongue, still the two stay together.
When God gives hard bread he gives sharp teeth.
Do not show your teeth until you can bite.
The tongue ties knots that the teeth cannot loosen.
The wolf loses his teeth, but not his inclination.
Of a given horse, one shouldn't check the teeth.
Teeth placed in front of the tongue give good advice.
He who has teeth has no bread, and he who has bread has no teeth.
If you can't bite, don't show your teeth.
He whets his teeth on something.
He shows the whiteness of his teeth.
They have most bread who have least teeth.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge.
Cast a bane in the deil's teeth.
Keep your tongue within your teeth.
Thinking is the essence of wisdom.
A girl unemployed is thinking of mischief.
Even thinking about sexual pleasure has its roots in greed.
Every head must do its own thinking.
He who is too sure of himself and acts without thinking is heading for his downfall.
Thinking is very far from knowing.
To talk without thinking is to shoot without aiming.
Thinking evil is much the same as doing it.
Thinking is not knowing.
Who has never done thinking never begins doing.
No one was ever hung for what he was thinking.
The habit of thinking is the habit of gaining strength.
Different background means different thinking.
Never let the competition know what your thinking.
Talking without thinking is like shooting without taking aim.
Talking without thinking is shooting without aiming.
Do not be tricked into thinking that there are no crocodiles just because the water is still.
In spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to what the woman has been thinking all winter.
If you start thinking of death, you are no longer sure of life.
He who talks without thinking dies without getting sick.
With gold I can buy things; with thinking I can understand things.
Speaking without thinking is shooting without taking aim.
The morning goes thinking, the day turning head.
An hour of thinking is more expensive than an hour of working.
The foolish man lies awake all night
Thinking of his many problems;
When the morning comes he is worn out
And his trouble is just as it was.
If you get to thinking you're a person of some influence, try ordering somebody else's dog around.
Do not be tricked into thinking that there are no crocodiles.
We are what our thinking makes us.
What's drinking? / A mere pause from thinking. (Lord Byron)
If you start thinking of death, you are no longer sure of life.
Time and thinking tame the strongest grief.
If you tell the truth too early, you are laughed at, too late and you are stoned.
A dressed up lie is worth more than a badly told truth.
Tell the blind he is eyeless, and he will get mad at you.
Children will tell you what they do, men what they think and older people what they have seen and heard.
Can't tell his ass from a hole in the ground.
One doesn't tell a man ‘go away' but one shows him something so he will go.
Tell me who your friends are and i'll tell you who you are.
If you spit in the face of a coward he'll tell you that it's raining.
If you tell people to live together, you tell them to quarrel.
To tell the dog to catch, and the rabbit to run.
Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no lies.
Always tell the truth in the form of a joke.
Don't tell your secret even to a fence.
Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her brain.
Never tell all that you know, or do all that you can, or believe all that you hear.
Dead men tell no tales.
Children tell in the highway what they hear by the fireside.
Do not tell all that you know, don't believe all you hear, and don't do all that you can.
Tell a lie and the truth will come to light.
Tell me who your father is, and I'll tell you who you are.
Tell me where it itches if you want me to scratch you.
Keep your eye on girls that don't tell their mothers everything.
A woman is as old as she wishes to tell you.
He who has travelled alone can tell what he likes.
Tell me what company you keep and i will tell you who you are.
Seeing is different from being told.
Tell me what you want to buy and I will tell you what you are.
The insane are told they're right.
If you ask a Negro where he's been, he'll tell you where he's going.
Don't be so much in love that you can't tell when it's raining.
If one tells you the harira is cold, tell him to put his hand in it.
If you want to give God a good laugh, tell him of your future plans.
Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks.
Who came back from the grave and told the story?
You can not tell a hungry child that you gave him food yesterday.
The road doesn't tell the traveler what lies ahead.
Who is brave enough to tell the lion that his breath smells?
He who spekes ill of someone close to you in your presence sends you to tell him so.
You must have crossed the river before you may tell the crocodile he has bad breath.
The people who talk the best are not the only ones who can tell you the most interesting things.
Don't tell your important secret to your friend because your friend has his other friends as well.
People who drink to drown their sorrows, should be told that sorrow knows how to swim.
Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks.
You can tell a ripe corn by its look.
If the fish comes out of the river to tell you that the crocodile has one eye, you should believe it.
The words you say to tell the truth are as important as the decision to be truthful.
If three people tell you that you are drunk, you better lie down.
Never tell your enemy that your foot aches.
Tell not all you know, all you have, or all you can do.
Don't do all you can, spend all you have, believe all you hear, or tell all you know.
Beware: some liars tell the truth.
To sit by the ring and tell the man inside, 'knock him down.'
Do not tell secrets in front of servants.
Tell not all you know; believe not all you hear; do not all you are able.
You cannot tell from a man's clothes how much he is making, but you must look at his wife's.
Don't tell secrets to the children of your relatives.
Don't tell your complaint to one who has no pity.
Drunkenness and anger, 'tis said tell the truth.
You can tell who the good seamen are during a storm.
Every story can be told in different ways.
The way a house is decorated will tell much about its owner.
Where you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.
Some who just tell tales of themselves.
He is not an honest man who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company that the soup is hot.
Tell your secret to your friend and he will set his foot on your neck.
Not every truth is good to be told.
To whom you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.
Tell me with whom you go and i'll tell you what you are.
Never trust people who tell you all their troubles but keep from you all their joys.
A fool can tell only foolish things.
Tell me who your friends is, I'll tell you who you are.
Tell the truth, and people will bash in your head.
A child, a drunkard and a fool tell the truth.
All that's said in the kitchen should not be told in the hall.
You may boast to strangers, but tell the truth to your own people.
Darg-flea tell him pickeny him mustn't say him dead till him ketch pon finger nail.
Show me your wife and I will tell you what kind of a husband she has.
A story is only half told if there is only one side presented.
Tell me who you walk with, and I'll tell you who you are.
You can tell an educated person by their talk and bells by their ringing.
Who approaches women penniless will be told: get lost.
A woman is as old as she wants to tell you she is.
An honest man would rather sell his land than tell a lie.
He who lies thrice believes he's told the truth.
Tell God the truth, but give money to the judge.
When you tell the truth, have one foot in the stirrup.
Don't tell your secret to your friend; he will tell it to his friend.
Children and fools tell the truth.
Tell me with whom thou goest, and I'll tell thee what thou doest.
Away with thee, sickness, to where they make a good pillow for thee.
I will charge thee nothing but the promise that thee will help the next man thee finds in trouble.
I give thee flight without wings.
If thine enemy wrong thee, buy each of his children a drum.
He that knows thee will never buy thee.
If God bids thee draw, he will find thee a rope; if he bids thee ride, he will find thee a horse.
Speak, that I may see thee.
I kiss thee hide, because thou art to be a wine-bag.
It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
Learn thou of learned men, th' unlearned of thee; for thus must knowledge propagated be.
That which burns thee not, cool not.
Take thy thoughts to bed with thee, for the morning is wiser than the evening.
If thy heart fail thee, why then climb at all?
I do not tell thee what thou art, thou wilt tell it thyself.
Alas! how much smaller a thing it is to be with others, than to remember thee!
Claw me, and I will claw thee.
Wish thy friend joy of his journey, but pray in secret that he have no joy, for then may he return quickly to thee.
Tell not ever an evil man if misfortunes thee befall.
Speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee.
Avoid evil and it will avoid thee.
Be a friend to thyself, and others will befriend thee.
Do good to a knave, and pray God he may not do the same to thee.
Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee.
Claw me and I'll claw thee.
Follow Love and it will flee, flee love and it will follow thee.
I send thee myrrh, not that thou mayest be by it perfumed, but it perfumed by thee.
Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee.
He that is kinder than he was wont hath a design upon thee.
Open thy mouth that I may know thee.
Time shall teach thee all things.
Follow love, and it will flee from thee; leave it, and it will follow thee.
Leave the Court, ere the Court leave thee.
Help thy self, and God will help thee.
A friend by thee is better than a brother far off.
If death be terrible, the fault is not in death, but thee.
Every day good luck to thee, and no day of sorrow be.
As thou valuest yourself, others will esteem thee.
Claw me and I'll claw thee.
Who has deceived thee so oft as thyself?
When thy neighbour's house is on fire it's time to look about thee.
Rather a single grape for me than a brace of figs for thee.
Help thyself and heaven will help thee.
He who caresses thee more than the occasion justifies, has either deceived thee or intends it.
That which covers thee discovers thee.
Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee.
Kill and thou wilt be killed, and he will be killed who kills thee.
It is thou must honour the place, not the place thee.
If doctors fail thee, be these three thy doctors--Rest, cheerfulness, and moderate diet.
Hail to thee, Nicaragua "Salve a ti, Nicaragua” is the Nicaraguan national anthem. (Video)
I give thee flight without wings.
Avoid the evil, and it will avoid thee.
As thou valuest yourself, others will esteem thee.
Ca' me, ca' thee.
Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee.
If you want to eat pickled herring, think about the thirst you will have.
When the father has eaten too much salt in his lifetime, then his son thereafter will have a great thirst.
Yesterday's drunkenness will not quench today's thirst.
Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst.
Do not drink poison to quench a thirst.
Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst.
Good as drink is, it ends in thirst.
Thirst is the end of drinking and sorrow is the end of drunkenness.
Go not with every hunger to the cupboard, nor with every thirst to the pitcher.
In a house where two daughters live, the cat dies of thirst.
He who has no thirst has no business at the fountain.
He earns a farthing and has a penn'orth of thirst.
The sea has an enormous thirst and an insatiable appetite.
Go not with every ailment to the doctor, with every plea to the lawyer, or with every thirst to the can.
Don't take every ill to the doctor, or every quarrel to the lawyer, or every thirst to the tavern.
He who drinks water with one hand finds out his thirst is still there.
Although dying of thirst, i drink not the water of a stolen fountain.
Thatch your roof before rainy weather, dig your well before you become parched with thirst.
Water quenches the thirst but does not teach you how to sing.
Thousands drink themselves to death before one dies of thirst.
Three diseases without shame: Love, itch and thirst.
Who can master his thirst can master his health.
Do you want to experience real thirst? Then try eating bitter cardoons and roasted fava beans.
Don't go to the doctor for every malady, nor to the lawyer for every disagreement, nor to the fountain for every thirst.
Small wells are better to quench your thirst.
To offer friendship to one who is looking for love, is like giving bread to someone dying of thirst.
You notice what I drink, and not the thirst I feel.
The road of "about," leads only to the house of "never." Near the spring nobody dies of thirst.
Even the fountains thirst.
Hunger and thirst scarcely kill any, But gluttony and drink kill a great many.
It is well to remember that there are five reasons for drinking the arrival of a friend, one's present or future thirst, the excellence of the wine, or any other reason.
He who is master of his thirst is master of his health.
When you are thirsty, it is too late to think about digging a well.
The hungry dream of bread, the thirsty of water.
Dig your well before you're thirsty.
The earth is not thirsty for the blood of the warriors but for the sweat of man's labor.
Thirsty men make good prophets.
There is water in the jug, and we're going around thirsty.
The water of the river flows on without waiting for the thirsty man.
One who sits by the well will never go thirsty.
There's no making the ass drink when his is not thirsty.
For a thirsty ox dirty water will do as well.
A fool is thirsty in the midst of water.
It is foolish for someone to remain thirsty when he is in the midst of water.
The fool is thirsty in the midst of a downpour.
The thoughtless person buries a well when he is thirsty.
One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor among them. When it comes to three, they have to go thirsty.
Dig the well before you are thirsty.
He who gets the grace of the women is neither hungry nor thirsty.
When one is really thirsty, one thousand pearls are not what is craved for at all.
You cannot make an ass drink if he is not thirsty.
Do not spit in the well - you may be thirsty by and by.
As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far place.
A hungry man thinks he won't be satiated, a thirsty man thinks he won't be quenched.
They took us to water and brought us back thirsty.
The fool is thirsty in the midst of water.
One will take someone to the spring and bring them back thirsty.
Did the old salt make you thirsty already?
Old love makes thirsty.
A stirring foot always gets something, even if it's only a thorn.
A thorn, a hound's tooth, a fool's word: these are the three sharpest things.
Even a small thorn causes festering.
He who want a rose must respect the thorn.
A thorn pierces young skin more quickly than old.
Every rose has a thorn as its friend.
It is easy to pull a thorn out of someone else's skin.
The rose is a friend of the thorn.
Instead of complaining that the rosebush is full of thorns, be happy that the thorn bush has roses.
Be bad to the bad; good to the good; be a flower to other flowers and a thorn to other thorns.
He knows well where the thorn pricks him.
A thorn has a small point, but the person who feels it does not forget its sting.
If you are not a flower, don't be a thorn.
Loving a woman who scorns you is like licking honey from a thorn.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
The thorn will come out from where it went in.
We will water the thorn for the sake of the rose.
The sparrow feels comfortable on the thorn bush.
A thorn defends the rose, harming only those who would steal the blossom.
The one who went to the in-laws got trapped in a thorn tree.
For the sake of the rose the thorn is watered too.
A thorn of experience is worth a wilderness of advice.
Of a thorn springs not a fig.
No rose without a thorn.
It is a bad idea to take a thorn out of someone else's foot and put it into your own.
It is folly to take a thorn out of another's foot and put it into your own.
No house without a mouse, no barn without corn, no rose without a thorn.
No rose without a thorn.
Every rose has its thorn.
The point of the thorn is small, but hw who has felt it does not forget it.
A thorn in the flesh.
It is dear bought honey that is lickt off a thorn.
The weak warrior wearing sandals overcomes the brave with a thorn in his foot.
Every straw is a thorn at night.
Anger is the thorn in the heart.
No rose without a thorn.
Io get what we want, we must accept some things we don't want. No rose without a thorn.
No rose without a thorn, or a love without a rival.
The thorn comes into the world point foremost.
Every rose has its thorn.
A thorn in the flesh.
No rose without a thorn.
A thorn that pierces the toe should be burned.
Every rose has its thorn.
One pound of learning requires ten pounds of common sense to apply it.
Better one hazel grouse in the bag, than ten on the branch.
Better one bird in the hand than ten in the sky.
Give nine, save ten.
Wood may remain ten years in the water, but it will never become a crocodile.
Beauty is ten, nine of which is dressing.
Courage is ten, nine is the ability to escape.
A father maintains ten children better than ten children one father.
Give nine, save ten.
There is no flower that lasts ten days and no might lasts ten years.
Power lasts ten years; influence not more than a hundred.
There is one fish in the pond, and ten anglers on the bank.
A good tree can lodge ten thousand birds.
You don't kill a gypsy by cutting him in ten pieces -- you only make ten more gypsies.
Man only ever scores nine out of ten.
Ask ten brewers and you will get eleven opinions.
A bird in hand is worth ten in a tree.
What you give you get, ten times over.
Nine is near ten.
Take one, not that you may return with ten.
Rather ten thousand lanterns from a wealthy man than one lantern from a poor man.
Ten men, ten minds.
Ten men, ten tastes.
Raise your sail one foot and you get ten feet of wind.
A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study.
A smile will gain you ten more years of life.
One eyewitness could be better than ten hearsays.
Wisdom consists of ten parts -- nine parts of silence and one part with few words.
One fool may ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
One coward makes ten.
To have five drachmas in the hand is better than ten drachmas on paper.
One minute of patience, ten years of peace.
If one has to jump a stream and knows how wide it is, he will not jump. If he does not know how wide it is, he will jump, and six times out of ten he will make it.
A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
Every ten years one man has need of another.
That crown is well spent which saves you ten.
One lie draw ten after it.
One living pope is better than ten dead.
One minute of patience can result in ten years of peace.
One idiot can ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
Rather one bird in the hand, than ten in the woods.
It is better to be a male for one day than a female for ten.
Better one day a man than ten days a woman.
A strange glass is emptied in one draught; your own glass not even in ten.
A bird in the hand is worth ten in the bush.
Better ruined ten times than dead once.
Better one eye-witness than ten hearsay witnesses.
I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years.
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
One day before you is better than ten years behind you.
Measure thy cloth ten times, thou canst cut it but once.
Ten who shout obtain more than ten who remains silent.
It's tough to find fool's; ten in every other house.
One father is better at caring for ten children than ten children are for one father.
When ten thousand soldiers lie rotting, the general's reputation is enhanced.
You warm up something for ten days and it goes cold in one.
A single arrow is easily broken, but ten in a bundle aren't.
It is better to write down something once than read it ten times.
One dog yelping at nothing will set ten thousand straining at their collars.
There is no flower that remains red for ten days, and no power that lasts for ten years.
A day of reading is a day of gain; a day without reading is ten days of loss.
To do good for ten years is not enough; do bad things for one day and it is too much.
Better to learn one thing well than to know ten superficially.
If you want a crop for one year, grow grain; if you want a crop for ten years, grow a tree; if you want a crop for a hundred years, grow men.
It takes a tree ten years to mature; it takes a man one hundred years to form.
Better die ten years early than live ten years poor.
Don't trust your wife until she has borne you ten sons.
The loss of one night's sleep is followed by ten days of inconvenience.
Before you flare up at anyone's faults, take time to count ten of your own.
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
One picture is worth ten thousand words.
Fortune is with you for an hour, and against you for ten.
One word beforehand is better than ten afterwards.
Ten noes are better then one lie.
One hair of a maiden's head pulls harder than ten yoke of oxen.
One today is better than ten tomorrows.
One "take this” is better than ten "God help you!”.
One time "here you are" is better than ten times "heaven help you."
Garlic is as good as ten mothers.
The person who has many faults is usually the first to criticize others. Put something off for one day, and ten days will pass.
Put something off for one day, and ten days will pass.
One enemy can do more hurt than ten friends can do good.
Better master one than engage with ten.
A bird in the hand is worth more than ten in the bush.
A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine.
However poor the elephant, it will be worth more than ten frogs.
Ten tongues that spread the word are worth less than two eyes that have seen, and two eyes that have seen are worth less than one hand that feels.
‘My belly thinks my throat is cut,' as the hungry man said.
A malignant sore throat is a danger; a malignant throat not sore is worse.
The Frenchman sings well, when his throat is moistened.
Save a thief from the gallows and he'll be the first who shall cut your throat.
The flatterer's throat is an open sepulchre.
There is no god like the throat: it takes sacrifices daily.
Death said to the man with his throat cut, "How ugly you look."
Let not your tongue cut your throat.
If he keeps on imitating everybody the monkey will one day cut his own throat.
When a musician hath forgotten his note, He makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat.
Perhaps you will eat a whole elephant and nothing gets stuck in your throat, and then you eat a fish and a bone gets stuck in your throat.
If the throat can grant passage to a knife, the anus should wonder how to expel it.
Don't let your tongue cut your throat.
Once out of the throat it spreads over the world.
He would not give the devil a knife to cut his throat.
The midwife should have cut his throat rather than his navel.
He whose throat is longer than his arm must pray constantly for gods' protection.
Every poor man has a dry throat and wet boots.
Measure your throat before you swallow a bone.
Misfortune sits on a rich man's lap but grabs the throat of the pauper.
Don't go to Turku, there they'll cut your throat!
Were it a wolf it would spring at your throat.
Throwing the hat at something.
To give counsel to a fool is like throwing water on a goose.
Not behaving and not organizing are as good as throwing yourself away.
To persecute the unfortunate is like throwing stones on one fallen into a well.
You don't punish a fish by throwing it in water.
Throwing your cap at a bird is not the way to catch it.
It is like throwing bur on a gourd.
Throwing your cap at a bird is not the way to catch it.
Looks like throwing knives.
A blind man sat behind a pile of stones and thought that nobody could see him.
He ate one fig and he thought the autumn had come.
Thought is free.
Thought breaks the heart.
The second thought is always the best.
The wish is father to the thought.
If you starve for three days, there is no thought that does not invade your imagination.
Since we didn't say anything, he thought he could do whatever he wanted to.
As we didn't say a word, he thought he could do anything he liked.
A mother and daughter fought, and fool thought they meant it.
Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Thought when sober, said when drunk.
Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise.
Even a fool is thought wise if he keeps silent, and discerning if he holds his tongue.
The distance between heaven and earth is no greater than one thought.
It's the thought that counts.
The cat and the rat never thought alike.
Darkness and night are mothers of thought.
I thought to cross myself, and I put out my eye.
As the wound inflames the finger, so the thought inflames the mind.
If everyone thought the same way, no goods would ever be sold.
The mind is free and the slightest thought has great influence. It is therefore important that you think enlightened thoughts.
Thought breaks the heart.
Adversity is the stuff that shows whether you are what you thought you were.
The cemeteries are filled with people who thought the world couldn't get along without them.
Action without thought is like shooting without aim.
The best part of a book is not the thought it contains but the thought it suggests.
The wish is father to the thought.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
What is said when the drunk has been thought out beforehand.
He thought the ocean his own under his spells.
I thought I had no husband, and I eat up the stew.
It's better to be silent and thought a fool, than to speak up and remove all doubt.
What is unclearly said is unclearly thought.
Guard your tongue in youth, and in age you may mature a thought that will be of service to your people.
The very time I thought I was lost, my dungeon shook and my chains fell off.
It's easy to get lost in thought if it's not familiar territory to you.
He thought he could catch birds with his mouth.
If everyone thought the same way, no goods would ever be sold.
Some have been thought brave because they were afraid to run away.
The worst kind of person is one whose power of speech is greater than his power of thought.
Thought is free.
Even the fool is thought wise if he remains silent.
Refrain from getting involved in something that hasn't been well thought out.
When two dogs fight over a bone, a third one carries it away.
Two birds disputed about a kernel, when a third swooped down and carried it off.
The first day a guest, the second day a guest, the third day a calamity.
A good deal for two, is a clip on the ears of a third.
The first [cup of vodka] goes as a stake, the second as a falcon, and the third as a little bird.
At the first cup man drinks wine, at the second wine drinks wine, at the third wine drinks man.
Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days - then on the third day give him a hoe.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise.
Third time is the charm.
Third time lucky.
Of three things the devil makes a salad: advocate's tongues, notaries' fingers, and a third that shall be nameless.
Two dogs fight for a bone and a third runs away with it.
With the first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy.
Guest and fish stinks at third day.
Two hungry meals make the third a glutton.
A person is a guest for one or two days, but becomes an intruder on the third.
A brave man is scared of a lion three times: first when he sees the tracks; second when he hears the first roar; and third when they are face to face.
A guest, like a fish, stinks the third day.
One does it for love, another for honour, a third for money.
The third person makes good company.
Two's company, the third person is an intruder.
A woman talks to one man, looks at another, and thinks about a third.
The first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy.
It is better to see for oneself than to be informed by a third person.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days; on the third day, give him a hoe.
With the first glass a man drinks wine, with the second glass the wine drinks the wine, with the third glass the wine drinks the man.
Even the Buddha's face, only until the third.
When there are two in a lawsuit only a third will profit from it.
Transgressions should never be forgiven a third time.
Boldness in business is the first, second and third thing.
The third time someone tries to put a saddle on you, you should admit you're a horse.
Hope is an egg, of which one man gets the yolk, another the white, and a third the shell.
When two enemies blow one horn, the third will have to suffer for it.
Where two fall out, the third wins.
Making the beginning is one third of the work.
The First glass is for health, the second - for joy, the third - for fun, the fourth - for madness.
Third time pays for all.
Where two are fighting, a third one wins.
While two dogs are fighting for a bone, a third runs away with it.
By the first glass a lamb, the second a lion, and the third a pig.
Two dogs strive for a bone, and a third runs away with it.
He that hes twa huirds, is able to get the third.
If two people say he is drunk, the third one should sleep.
The first drink makes you a frisky gazelle, the second an impetuous zebra, the third a roaring lion, and with the fourth you become a silly donkey.
The first drink with water, the second without water, the third like water.
The first marriage is a plate of honey, the second a glass of wine, and the third is a cup of poison.
Boldness in business is the first, second, and third thing.
A woman either loves or hates, there is no third course.
Runs like having the head as the third foot.
One cup (of liquor) is for health, second one is for fun, third one is for nothing.
Third time lucky.
He whose ace gets cut on, gets his underpants off. When you cut, cut high. The Third Hand is the highest hand.
A guest and a fish start reeking on the third day.
The vine brings forth three grapes: the first of pleasure, the second of drunkenness, the third of sorrow.
Ill won gear winna enrich the third heir.
The third time tells the truth.
One thumb alone does not kill a louse.
Every honest miller has a thumb of gold.
He has him under his thumb.
Rare is the person who can weigh the faults of another without putting his thumb on the scale.
It is impossible to tie a knot without the thumb.
The fingers have got pretty close to the thumb.
Thy Thumb is under my Belt.
A good rule of thumb.
His/her thumb is the middle of the palm of hand.
Do not say the first thing that comes to your mind.
Not every glittering thing is gold.
Keep a thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has every thing.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
The only thing we learn from new elections is we learned nothing from the old.
The seeking for one thing will find another.
It's hard to kill a bad thing.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll always find a use for it.
As a thing is viewed, so it appears.
Anger is the only thing to put off till tomorrow.
No one is hurt by doing the right thing.
Justice is a good thing, only not in my house, but in my neighbor's.
He who does not know one thing knows another.
Fleeing and running are not the same thing.
The best thing God did was to make one day follow another.
A beautiful thing is never perfect.
It is a wretched thing to injure a poor man.
Knowledge is not the main thing, but deeds.
A thing that is firmly fixed cannot be dislodged except with much trouble.
If you want a thing done well, do it yourself.
The very thing one likes, one does well.
When your neighbor walks through your orchard, the polite thing to do is to ignore it.
Insanity is doing the same thing in the same way and expecting a different outcome.
It is a little thing to starve to death; it is a serious matter to lose one's virtue.
A cheap thing doesn't lack defect, nor an expensive thing quality.
The cheap thing isn't without problem, the expensive without help.
In nature, there is no such thing as a lawn.
It is an ill thing to be deceived, but worse to deceive.
If you eat a live toad first thing in the morning, nothing worse will happen all day long.
The only thing a heated argument ever produced is coolness.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
If you want a thing well done, do it yourself. (1616)
Never lend that thing you most need.
A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool.
A little Learning is a dangerous thing.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
All of you that intend to ring, you undertake a dangerous thing.
Take heed is a fair thing.
As a thing is used, so it brightens.
Be the thing you would be called.
When a thing is done, make the best of it.
The smallest thing outlives the human being.
Show the fatted calf, but not the thing that fattened him.
Better one good thing that is, rather than two good things that were, or three good things that might never come to pass.
This is better than the thing we never had.
In hospitality, the chief thing is the good will.
A good thing is soon caught up.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
The only good thing that comes from the east is the sun.
Give a hint to the man of sense, and consider the thing done.
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.
A good thing is known when it is lost.
If we let people see that kind of thing, there would never again be any war.
Hope is the last thing ever lost.
A thing done has a head.
It is a fine thing to die for one's fatherland, but a still finer thing to live for it.
When a thing is done, advice comes too late.
Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow.
The drunkard thinks of only one thing and the barman of something else.
A family name is not cooked and eaten, one's life is the thing.
A little thing can ruin the whole thing.
Who has got a good wife has found a good thing.
Who is a man for one thing will be a man for another.
Who reminds of an old thing will have his eye picked out.
A fool by chance may say a wise thing.
The best thing about a man is his dog.
Yakov's magpie started chattering the same thing about anyone.
An indispensable thing never has much value.
Friendship is one thing and tobacco is another.
There is no right way to do a wrong thing.
A good thing lost is a good thing valued.
A bad thing never dies.
A friend to everybody and to nobody is the same thing.
A little thing in hand is worth more than a great thing in prospect.
Alas! how much smaller a thing it is to be with others, than to remember thee!
He who does not praise a thing is he who buys it.
Sometimes the only thing more dangerous than a question is an answer.
He who is afraid of a thing gives it power over him.
The first thing one should own is a home; and it is the last thing one should sell; for a home is ones tomb this side of heaven.
Do one thing at time, with supreme excellence.
Cattle die and kinsmen die, thyself too soon must die, but one thing never, I ween, will die, the doom on each one dead.
The first thing that God created was his own beard.
A new thing does not come to she who sits, but to she who travels.
Living in the past has one thing going for it; it's cheaper!
If you want a certain thing, you must first be a certain person. Once you are that certain person, obtaining that certain thing will no longer be a concern of yours.
There is no thing which does not cause another to exist.
If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging.
The thief that is not caught is a king.
Even a thief takes ten years to learn his trade.
What the thief stole has always been called expensive.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
A thief is always under suspicion.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes, the horse thief not one.
The patient thief is as a tree whose root runs deep as he waits for the sweet fruit..
Debts make the thief.
We must blame the thief first before we say that where the owner put her property improper.
A thief does not like to be robbed.
When the thief has stolen from a thief, God laughs in heaven.
A goat thief came along and they put him in jail.
The guard's sleep is the lamplight of the thief.
Poverty makes thieves, like love makes poets.
Borderers are either thieves or murderers.
The big thieves hang the little ones.
Thieves never steal bells.
The thief hates the moon.
It is difficult to steal when the boss is a thief.
Every one is a thief in his own craft.
The beggar may sing before the thief.
Thieves don't like to see their comrades carrying the bags.
You can lock your door from a thief, but not from a damned liar.
A tattler is war than a thief.
The hunter who always comes home with meat is a thief.
When a thief finds nothing to steal he will steal a dagger made of sand.
Necessity could make a thief.
The one who is caught with the skin is the thief.
A thief is caught by his fellow thief.
A thief finds another one.
It is a beggar's pride that he is not a thief.
Don't be a thief and won't fear the king.
Look after your property, and you won't accuse your neighbour of being a thief.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
It takes a thief to catch a thief.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
A thief believes everybody steals.
A fair booty makes a fair thief.
If two thieves quarreled, what was stolen emerges.
Time betrays and hangs the thief.
Every beginning is hard, said the thief, when he began by stealing an anvil.
He goes as willingly as a thief to the gallows.
He who holds the ladder is as bad as the thief.
The concealer is as bad as the thief.
Whore or thief young or old, welcome so you've got the gold.
The thief is no danger to the beggar.
It is not easy to steal where the landlord is a thief.
The thief is sorry he is to be hanged, not that he is a thief.
If you steal something small you are a petty thief, but if you steal millions you are a gentleman of society.
An egg thief becomes a camel thief.
When thieves fall out, their knaveries come to light.
The thief becomes the gallows well.
The thief who steals another one is forgiven for 100 years.
Thief who steals thief has one hundred years of pardon.
When a girl is born it is like having six thieves invade the house.
On a thief, the hat's on fire.
A thief is a thief, whether he steals a diamond or a cucumber.
God laughs when you steal from a thief.
Learning is a treasure no thief can touch.
When it thunders, the thief becomes honest.
Ask my companion if I be a thief.
A mouse will scare a thief.
Ask my chum if I am a thief.
Save a thief from the gallows and he'll be the first who shall cut your throat.
There are more thieves than gibbets.
The thief who isn't caught is an honest salesman.
A thief not caught becomes a king.
One cry of "Thief!" and the whole marketplace is on the lookout.
The thief thinks everybody steals.
Who weds a widow with three children takes four thieves into his house.
Better a thief for a neighbor than an overzealous rabbi.
A thief makes opportunity.
A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich.
It's no crime to steal from a thief.
All beginnings are hard, said the thief, and began by stealing an anvil.
It is hard to steal where the host is a thief.
The open door invites the thief.
They understand one another like thieves in a fair.
"bad company,” said the thief, as he went to the gallows between the hangman and a monk.
The thief has a chicken's heart - he sleeps in fear.
Small faults indulged in are little thieves that let in greater.
One is not a thief unless caught stealing.
The thief makes perhaps one mistake; those he stole from made a hundred.
If there were no receiver there would be no thief.
A postern door makes a thief.
Don't send away your cat for being a thief.
A greedy father has thieves for children.
Learn thou of learned men, th' unlearned of thee; for thus must knowledge propagated be.
Just one by one white hairs have come, and thus have they grown.
With his ears let him listen, and look with his eyes; thus each wise man spies out the way.
Just one by one white hairs have come, and thus have they grown.
Be not ashamed of mistakes and thus make them crimes.
Your soul to God, your body to dust, your property to your relatives, because thus it has been found written.
Thus years glide by.
Nanni cherished his old age. [...] He captured Simurrum, but [...] he never saw mighty kingship. Thus Nanni was carried off to the nether world.
As is the music, thus will be the dance.
A mad bull is not to be tied up with a pack thread.
A lazy tailor finds his thread too long.
Little by little the cotton thread becomes a turban.
A thread from everyone will make a shirt for the needy.
The thread must be longer than the needle.
Begin to weave and God will give the thread.
A bad neighbor will give you a needle with no thread.
The stitch is lost unless the thread be knotted.
A thread will tie an honest man better than a chain a rogue.
The bad neighbour gives a needle without thread.
Every day a thread makes a skein in the year.
It hangs upon a silken thread.
Where the thread is weakest it breaks.
By the thread we unwind the skein.
If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow.
Weave in faith and God will find the thread.
The thread follows the needle.
A cloth is not woven from a single thread.
If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow.
The thread follows the needle.
Friends tie thier purse with a cobweb thread.
Short flax makes long thread.
The purse of loved ones is tied with a gossamer thread.
For a web begun God sends thread.
Friends tie their purse with a cobweb thread.
For a web begun God sends thread.
Thread off the world ? shirt for naked.
If everyone gives one thread, the poor man will have a shirt.
Needle and thread are half clothing.
To be like the tailor of Campillo, who worked for nothing, and found thread.
Hot needle burn thread.
A lazy tailor uses a long thread.
One thread from [everyone in] the world - [makes a] shirt for [the] naked.
As you have arranged the thread so must you weave it.
Time and tide wait for no man.
At high tide the fish eat ants; at low tide the ants eat fish.
Shrimp that sleeps is carried by the tide.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
It is good sailing with wind and tide.
Nobility without wealth is more worthless than the seaweed which the tide has left.
One should set sails with the tide.
When tide is high, it ebbs.
Love has its tides; before ebb tide you must take advantage of the flood.
Youths are like waves of the sea, the elderly have strength instead of tide.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Three things you cannot comprehend: the mind of a woman, the working of the bees, and the ebb and flow of the tide.
Tide and time, bides na man.
Get bait while the tide is out.
Looking for nails at low tide.
It is ill sailing against wind and tide.
It's good steering with wind and tide.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
Time and tide for nae man bide.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Every tide has an ebb save the tide of graces.
The tide will fetch away what the ebb brings.
If your mind is strong, all difficult things will become easy; if your mind is weak, all easy things will become difficult.
All things good to know are difficult to learn.
Life is too short to do stupid things.
Good things come to those who wait.
All things are difficult before they are easy.
Honorable is the person who is aware of his power, yet refrains from inflicting bad things onto others.
All good things come to an end.
Those who give have all things; those who withhold have nothing.
All things change and we with them.
God hears things upside down.
Two things cannot be hidden: being astride a camel and being pregnant.
There are such things as false truths and honest lies.
In the entire world, things are two and two.
If you like to have things easy, you'll have difficulties; if you like problems, you will succeed.
In the world all things are two and two.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
A thorn, a hound's tooth, a fool's word: these are the three sharpest things.
Need teaches things unlawful.
The eye that sees all things else, sees not itself.
Do well the little things now; so shall great things come to thee by and by asking to be done.
The eyes can do a thousand things that the fingers can't.
The cheap things prove to be expensive at the end.
The most beautiful things in the universe are the starry heavens above us and the feeling of duty within us.
If we dig precious things from the land, we will invite disaster.
There are only two things from which to choose: profit or loss.
He who begins many things finishes but few.
There is a cause for all things.
All things grow with time -- except grief.
People who do not break things first will never learn to create anything.
If you buy things you don't need, you will soon be selling things you do need.
There is a remedy for all things save death.
He who does not wish for little things does not deserve big things.
The important things are left in the locker.
Never ask God to give you anything; ask Him to put you where things are.
There is no choosing between two things of no value.
He who lingers around will hear bad things spoken about him.
Many things are too bad to be blessed, and too good to be cursed.
Only tall things cast shadows.
When a son attends to his father, it is a twofold joy for both; when wise things are prescribed to him, the son is.
Your eye is the only way you can judge things.
The proportion of things thrill the eye.
Man alone is the measure of all things.
Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face.
From little date seeds, great things are born.
God lets things go - but only to a point.
It takes sweat to work on things, but it only takes saliva to criticize things.
"come see me” and "come live with me” are two different things.
Things that are stolen will really never make you rich.
People who do not mend things first will never produce something.
If you buy things you don't need, you are stealing from yourself.
A poor man does not pick up things if does they say he stole them.
He who is after two things at the same time, one will surely escape him.
A hasty person misses the sweet things.
Talk about things of tomorrow and the mice inside the ceiling laugh.
Life is the source of all things.
Never judge things of which you only know the shadow.
If you think about things too long, good thoughts will disappear.
After three years useless things are useful too.
Do good things quickly.
First things first.
Good things are never cheap.
Good things, many devils.
A man who cannot tolerate small misfortunes can never accomplish great things.
The people who talk the best are not the only ones who can tell you the most interesting things.
In bad things be slow; in good things be quick.
Few things are easy to the unwilling.
A man is as big as the things that made him mad.
Don't ignore the small things - the kite flies because of its tail.
From small beginnings come great things.
There are three things that can destroy a preacher, the glory, the gold, and the girls.
Saying and doing are two different things.
First things first.
Best things in life are free.
Many things are lost for want of asking.
Facts are stubborn things.
A man is known to be mortal by two things, sleep and lust.
Three things to fear: a crumbling wall, an angry dog, and a shrew.
the key to all things is determination.
To know the law and do the right are two things.
Things never go so well that someone should have no fear, nor so bad that someone should have no hope.
A good soldier has only three things to think about; the king, God, and nothing.
Great things are done more through courage than through wisdom.
He who prizes little things is worthy of great ones.
He who saves in little things, can be liberal in great ones.
Who heeds not little things, will be troubled about lesser ones.
Better one good thing that is, rather than two good things that were, or three good things that might never come to pass.
Two things that go for loss-turf on a mountain and the wisdom of a poor man.
Three things that can't be taught: generosity, poetry and a singing voice.
When you are thirsty, it is too late to think about digging a well.
Think before acting and whilst acting still think.
Ask advice of an ignorant man and he will think you are his enemy.
Children will tell you what they do, men what they think and older people what they have seen and heard.
Drink beer, think beer.
However little you think of the elephant, you can't say it won't fill a pot.
Don't think there are no crocodiles because the water's calm.
A diplomat must always think twice before he says nothing.
Whip the saddle and give the mule something to think about it.
When drinking water, think about the source.
Whatever you do, think about it seven times.
If you want to eat pickled herring, think about the thirst you will have.
Think today and speak tomorrow.
When eating the fruit, think of the person who planted the tree.
Think before you do.
A person's worst enemy can't wish on him what he can think up himself.
The ass and the driver never think alike.
Evildoers always think the worst of others.
Don't think there are no sharks because the water is calm.
Don't think there are no crocodiles just because the water's calm.
Don't think back on someone whose name you forgot, he is probably someone else by now.
A dog doesn't like bananas, but he can't bear to think that chickens eat them.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
It's easier to make it than to think about it.
If you think about things too long, good thoughts will disappear.
Whenever there is profit to be made then think of honesty.
The first half of the night, think of your own faults; the second half, the faults of others.
You think you've lost your horse? who knows, he may bring a whole herd back to you someday.
Do not think that placid water is without crocodiles.
If you think you're too small to be noticed go and sleep in a room which is full of mosquitoes.
Looking at a king's mouth one would never think he sucked his mother's breast.
It is unwise for one to think that a hen will ever be accorded respect in the land of the hawks.
If the defendant is silent the jury will think him guilty.
Think before you speak.
They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow.
In every beginning think of the end.
If you see the fangs of the lions, don't think the lion is smiling.
Don't think you are eloquent just because a fool applauds you.
A good soldier has only three things to think about; the king, God, and nothing.
Great men's servants don't think little of themselves.
If you have to swallow a frog, try not to think about it. If you have to swallow two frogs, don't swallow the smaller one first.
Your friend and your enemy think you will never die.
Ask for advice but do what you think is best.
There are four things in this life of which we have more than we think: faults, debts, years and enemies.
Think of many things - do one.
You will not be loved if you think of yourself alone.
Think much, speak little and write less.
Lovers think others are blind.
The heart does not think all the mouth says.
He who has had enough to eat thinks of serving God; the hungry think of stealing.
Think twice, say once.
If you are sick, think about your life; if you are better, think about your gold.
Think before speaking.
You do not fall because you are weak; you fall because you think you are strong.
Think before you begin.
In prosperity think of adversity.
Think everything carefully before committing yourself because there is no point for regretting it later.
He is a fool who thinks that another does not think.
If you think the worst, you won't be far wrong.
Keep quiet and people will think you a philosopher.
You think of water when the well is empty.
If the tiger sits, do not think it is out of respect.
As you go the way of life you will see a great chasm. Jump. It is not as wide as you think.
Act, and you may eat dinner. Think, and you may be dinner.
The mind is free and the slightest thought has great influence. It is therefore important that you think enlightened thoughts.
Less good than they say for the sons of men is the drinking oft of ale: for the more they drink, the less can they think and keep a watch o'er their wits.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
What the people think cannot be denied.
Whether you think you can or think you can't, you're right.
One with a scar, do not think him healed.
When you are polite, the others think they are wearing flowers.
You never are so easily mistaken as when you think you know the way.
When traveling do not calculate the distance, at dinner don't think of how much.
By day think of your own faults, by night think of the faults of others.
Enjoy yourself - it's later than you think.
Think before you leap.
You cannot think you could teach a fish to swim.
Those who think there too big to do little things are perhaps to small to do big things.
Think like a winner and you will be one.
Great men think alike.
If one comes to a fork of the road in a strange country, she stops to think.
If you think education is expensive try ignorance.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
A rather sure way to be cheated is to think one's self more clever than other people.
Think twice before you speak to a friend in need.
Those who think they can't are generally right.
Character is what we are; reputation is what others think we are.
All men think their enemies ill men.
To him who can take what thou hast, give what he asks.
If thou touchest pitch thou shalt be defiled.
Ask thy purse what thou should'st buy.
Whatever kind of word thou speakest, the like shalt thou bear.
I kiss thee hide, because thou art to be a wine-bag.
Whither goes thou, misfortune? to where there is more.
Home, dear home, small as thou art, to me thou art a palace.
When the sun shines on thee, thou needest not care for the moon.
Thou are a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
Learn thou of learned men, th' unlearned of thee; for thus must knowledge propagated be.
The first occasion offered quickly take, lest thou repine at what thou didst forsake.
Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
Measure thy cloth ten times, thou canst cut it but once.
Whither goest thou, Misfortune? To where there is more.
When thou seest thy house in flames, go warm thyself by it.
Whither goest thou, sorrow? Whither I am used to go.
I do not tell thee what thou art, thou wilt tell it thyself.
Be merry, Shrovetide, for to-morrow thou wilt be ashes.
The eleventh commandment: Thou shalt not contradict.
In sweet converse call the righteous to thy side, learn a healing song while thou livest.
In thy home be joyous and generous to guests discreet shalt thou be in thy bearing.
Never in speech with a foolish knave shouldst thou waste a single word.
Care shall gnaw thy heart if thou canst not tell all thy mind to another.
So shall she charm that thou shalt not heed the council, or words of the king.
Thou shalt never sleep in the arms of a sorceress, lest she should lock thy limbs.
Thou hast a head and so hath a pin.
St. Swithin's Day, if thou dost rain, for forty days it will remain; St. Swithin's Day, if thou be fair, for forty days 'twill rain no more.
Welcome, evil, if thou comest alone.
If thou canst not see the bottom, wade not.
If thou hast not a capon, feed on an onion.
If thou seest ought amiss, mend it in thyself.
Eat whatever thou likest, but dress as others do.
"Fie upon thee, how black thou art!" said the kettle to the saucepan.
I send thee myrrh, not that thou mayest be by it perfumed, but it perfumed by thee.
Approach the perfumer and thou wilt be perfumed.
If thou thyself canst do it, attend no other's help or hand.
The counsel thou wouldst have another keep, first keep it thyself.
Thou art a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
One "Take it" is more worth than two "Thou shalt have it".
Cut not the bough that thou standest upon.
Thou hast a head and so hath a pin.
Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn.
Sike a man as thou would be, draw thee to sike company.
Be the same thing that thou wald be cald.
Quhiles thou, whiles I, soe goes the Baillerie.
Ask thy purse what thou should spend.
As thou valuest yourself, others will esteem thee.
Be truly what thou wouldst be thought to be.
Kill and thou wilt be killed, and he will be killed who kills thee.
Renounce the devil, and thou shalt wear a shabby coat.
It is thou must honour the place, not the place thee.
Thou too art mortal.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1044)
The more thou stir it the worse it will be.
What mare's nest hast thou found?
As thou valuest yourself, others will esteem thee.
"Du gamla, du fria” (Thou ancient, Thou free) is the title of the de facto national anthem of Sweden.
And Nathan said unto David: And Nathan said unto David: "Thou art the man."
Do what thou doest.
Saint Swithun's day, if thou be fair, for forty days it will remain; Saint Swithun's day, if thou bring rain, for forty days it will remain.
When thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth.
Welcome evil if thou comest alone.
A deaf man may not have heard the thunder but he surely will see the rain.
Big thunder, little rain.
Thunder clouds do not always give rain.
Clouds that thunder do not always rain.
A clear sky fears not the thunder.
If the peasant doesn't hear the thunder he won't make the sign of the cross.
Despite the beauty of the moon, sun and stars, the sky also has a threatening thunder and striking lightening.
It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
He who is struck by the lightning doesn't hear the thunder.
Don't hope for rain or thunder, hope for an agronomist.
If the thunder is not loud, the peasant forgets to cross himself.
The peasant will not cross himself before it begins to thunder.
Thunder is not yet rain.
It is not the thunder that causes the rain.
Who created thunder does not fear it.
The son of the God of thunder does not die of lightning.
Though you don't believe in other gods, you believe in the god of thunder; though you don't believe in medicine generally, you believe in laxatives.
Thunder cannot make a deaf person hear.
He that is fraid of a far--should never hear thunder.
If there's thunder at capu di staghju, leave the wheat outside.
I'll believe the thunder when I see the lightning.
Whose life is as lightning, his words are as thunder.
Clouds and thunder don't always result in rain.
Be not water, taking the tint of all colors.
All is not tint that is in peril.
Quhen the good-wife is fra hame, the keys are tint.
Beauty's muck when honour's tint.
For a tint thing care not.
It is not tint that is done to friends.
Quhen the good-man is fra hame, the board-cloth is tint.
It's tint that is done to old men and bairns.
A good fellow tint never, but at an ill fellows hand.
A hook is weel tint to catch a salmon.
The soul of a fool is always dancing on the tip of his tongue.
The tip of a finger cannot be touched by itself.
Be slow to reach for your purse and quick to tip your hat.
The scales tip where the weight is.
The entire world rests on the tip of the tongue.
A man's intelligence is located in the tip of the pen.
I pointed out to you the stars and all you saw was the tip of my finger.
One grain of sand can tip the scale.
The tip of a finger cannot be touched by itself.
A belching toad portends rain.
If you eat a live toad first thing in the morning, nothing worse will happen all day long.
A toad too would like to crack nuts, but he has no teeth.
If you want to eat a toad, you should look for a fat and juicy one.
The toad that wanted to avoid the rain fell in the water.
Silly toad: planning a meal of goose!
If you want to eat a toad, you should look for a fat and juicy one.
The village slatternly wench has the form of a dove, the heart of a fox, and the mind of an toad.
A toad does not jump around in the daytime, unless something is after its life.
To the devil with so many masters, said the toad to the harrow.
A hero only appears once the tiger is dead.
The hero appears only when the tiger is dead.
Once the cattle have been split up, then the tiger strikes.
Don't teach the tiger cub to eat meat.
A man's good name is as precious to him as its skin is to a tiger.
A tiger dies and leaves his skin; a man dies and leaves his name.
Even if the old woman has no teeth, her tiger nuts remain in her own bag.
If a girl seems as shy as a mouse, you still have to look out for the tiger within her.
When the tiger kills, the jackal profits.
The tiger crouches before he leaps upon his prey.
It is better to be a live rabbit than a tiger.
There is no off switch on a tiger.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not having given it wings.
Every dog is a tiger in his own street.
It is better to live for one day as a tiger than to live for a thousand years as a sheep.
A tiger wearing a bell will starve.
A tiger does not have to proclaim its tigri-tude.
Escape from a tiger to be eaten by a crocodile.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not giving it wings.
If the tiger sits, do not think it is out of respect.
While keeping a tiger from the front door, the wolf comes in at the back.
A tiger cannot beat a crowd of monkeys.
Survive the Jaw of a Tiger.
He who rides a tiger is afraid to dismount.
He who rides on a tiger can never get off.
Who rides a tiger cannot dismount.
One day as a tiger is worth a thousand as a sheep.
Learn to paint a tiger and you only paint his skin; learn to know a human being and you only know his face.
Even when a girl is as shy as a mouse, you still have to beware of the tiger within.
The tiger that prowls quietly doesn't mean it's intimidated.
The elephant and the tiger do not go hunting on the same pasture.
The bleating of the lamb merely arouses the tiger.
The tiger that has once tasted blood is never sated with the taste of it.
Don't blame God for creating the tiger -- instead, thank him for not giving it wings.
Hälsan tiger still.
A person's stripes are inside; those of a tiger are outside.
A wasp can be more dangerous than a tiger.
You cannot catch a tiger cub unless you enter the tiger's den.
A dragon will be teased by a shrimp in a shoal water; a tiger will be bullied by a dog on a treeless plain.
Lure a tiger out of its mountain.
He that would keep his eye sound must tie up his hand.
By all means trust in Allah, but tie your camel first.
If he gives you a rope, tie him with it.
Avoid suspicion: when you're walking through your neighbor's melon patch, don't tie your shoe.
A family tie is like a tree; it can bend but it cannot break.
Trust in God, but tie your camel.
Trust allah, but tie up your camel.
A golden ring can tie a man as tight as any chain.
You tie the horse at the will of the master.
A thread will tie an honest man better than a chain a rogue.
To love a cow, tie it up; To love a child, hit him/her.
You cannot tie up a dog with a chain of sausages.
Before you milk a cow tie it up.
One rind is enough to tie a thousand pieces of wood.
Trust in Allah, but tie your camel.
Even if you are cunning, you will not tie water up in a bale of grass.
When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion.
Even if you are cunning, you will not tie water up in a bale of grass.
When spider webs unite, they tie up a lion.
Only when a tree has grown can you tie your cow to it.
When the threads unite, they can tie the lion.
It is impossible to tie a knot without the thumb.
Friends tie thier purse with a cobweb thread.
Tie your camel and rely on God.
Trust in Allah, but tie your camel first.
In war it is best to tie your horse to a strange manger.
He who would close another man's mouth, should first tie up his own.
It is difficult to tie an unborn horse to the manger.
Friends tie their purses with a spider's web.
Tie me hand and foot and throw me among my own people.
Friends tie their purse with a cobweb thread.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over chitterlings is ready for marriage.
Who has convenience and doesn't seize it, tie him to a stall and give him straw.
Tie the burden securely and go off singing.
Tie the donkey where the owner wants, and let the wolf come to devour him.
See that you tie so that you can untie.
When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion.
He, who gives you a rope, tie him with it.
It's my donkey and I can tie it where I please.
If you tie a frog on the leg a snake will follow you.
A little string will tie a title bird.
Trust in God - but tie your camel tight. ~ Persian Proverb.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over.
Tie up the hen that eats at your place and lays eggs elsewhere.
Three comforts of old age: fire, tea and tobacco.
It is better to be without a wife for a minute than without tobacco for an hour.
Friendship is one thing and tobacco is another.
Four things put a man beside himself--women, tobacco, cards, and wine.
Never slap a man who's chewing tobacco.
It is better to be without a wife for a bit than without tobacco for an hour.
Tobacco hic,/ Will make a man well if he be sick.
Enough food and a pipe full of tobacco makes you equal to the immortals.
When the bundles of tobacco are ready, dancing begins.
A thousand friends are few; one enemy is too many.
A lie can annihilate a thousand truths.
The strong will defeat one, the knowledgeable a thousand.
If the Sultan demands five eggs, let his soldiers roast a thousand chickens.
One written word is worth a thousand pieces of gold.
A thousand assignations, one marriage.
The radiant and well-understood speech of one person is better than the speech of a thousand people that is not.
Measure a thousand times and cut once.
One door is shut, but a thousand are open.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
He is bad that will not take advice, but he is a thousand times worse that takes every advice.
A thousand people cannot undress a naked person.
The eyes can do a thousand things that the fingers can't.
There are a thousand paths to every wrong.
In a tree that you can't climb, there are always a thousand fruits.
The thousand brilliant accomplishments of the past cannot serve today's purpose.
One moment is worth more than a thousand gold pieces.
A day in prison is longer than a thousand years at large.
A thousand regrets do not pay one debt.
A single advantage is worth a thousand sorceries.
Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house than to have one single enemy inside it.
A good tree can lodge ten thousand birds.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with one step.
The go-between wears out a thousand sandals.
He who treads the path of love walks a thousand meters as if it were only one.
Rather ten thousand lanterns from a wealthy man than one lantern from a poor man.
Better than a thousand days of diligent study is one day with a great teacher.
A thousand li journey begins with a single step.
Half an hour in a spring evening is worth a thousand gold pieces.
One moment of intense happiness prolongs life by a thousand years.
One falsehood spoils a thousand truths.
An aged steed confined to the stable still aspires after the glory of galloping a thousand miles.
Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark.
Peace and tranquillity are a thousand gold pieces.
I dreamed a thousand new paths.i woke and walked my old one.
A mad man drops a rock into water well, so that thousand wise men can not take it out.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
Better a thousand enemies outside the tent than one within.
It's better to have a thousand enemies outside of the tent than one inside the tent.
A thousand curses never tore a shirt.
A single penny fairly got, is worth a thousand that are not.
Conscience is as good as a thousand witnesses.
In a thousand pounds of law there is not one ounce of love.
It is better to live for one day as a tiger than to live for a thousand years as a sheep.
A thousand friends are too few; one enemy is one too many.
Listen a hundred times; ponder a thousand times; speak once.
Talk to a priest and die a thousand deaths.
A thousand years hence the river will run as it did.
Even though you know a thousand things, ask the man who knows one.
A single bad experience is worth a thousand threats.
Conscience is as a thousand witnesses.
One scabby sheep infects a thousand sheep.
One rind is enough to tie a thousand pieces of wood.
Unity is equal to a thousand golden coins.
A running man can slit a thousand throats in one night.
Four thousand throats may be cut in one night by a running man.
The slanderer kills a thousand times; the assassin but once.
A narrow place can contain a thousand friends.
A small house is enough room for a thousand friends.
When ten thousand soldiers lie rotting, the general's reputation is enhanced.
Better be proficient in one art than a smatterer in a thousand.
If one man praises you, a thousand will repeat the praise.
One dog yelping at nothing will set ten thousand straining at their collars.
Sometimes it takes only an hour to get a reputation that lasts for a thousand years.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
A Quarter of an hour is worth more than a thousand gold coins.
An answer that does not resolve a quarrel makes a thousand new ones.
Drinking with a bosom friend, a thousand shots are too few; Talking with a disagreeable person, half a sentence is too many.
It is easy to get a thousand soldiers, but difficult to get one general.
Last night I made a thousand plans, but this morning I went my old way.
Good deeds never leave home, bad ones echo a thousand miles.
Deviate an inch, lose a thousand miles.
Read critically, and you will find each word worth a thousand ounces of gold.
A picture is worth ten thousand words.
A thousand workers, a thousand plans.
One day as a tiger is worth a thousand as a sheep.
To learn what is good, a thousand days are not sufficient; to learn what is evil, an hour is too long.
Easy to enroll a thousand soldiers. But, ah, one general!.
Married couples tell each other a thousand things without speech.
Spouses that love each other say a thousand things without speaking.
A one-inch error at the start can be a thousand miles at the end.
O man, you who do not live a hundred years, why fret a thousand minutes?
Over a distance of a thousand miles only humanity works, not power.
If you want something, you'll do a thousand things to obtain it. But if you don't want something, you'll give a thousand excuses to refrain from it.
You can stay a thousand miles away from home and still see inside.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step.
A smile is worth a thousand words.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
The man will surely fail, who dares delay, and lose to-morrow that has lost to-day.
Joy and sorrow are to-day and to-morrow.
He that spares something to-day will have something to-morrow.
To-day stately and brave, to-morrow in the grave.
He that falls to-day may be up again to-morrow.
If to-day will not, to-morrow may.
Defer not till to-morrow what may be done to-day.
Rather the egg to-day than the hen to-morrow.
To-day must borrow nothing of to-morrows.
One to-day is worth two to-morrows.
He who does not improve to-day will grow worse to-morrow.
To-day for money, to-morrow for nothing.
To-day in finery, to-morrow in filth.
Merchant to-day, beggar to-morrow.
If you laugh to-day, you will cry to-morrow.
What is wrong to-day won't be right to-morrow.
To-day for money, to-morrow for nothing.
To-day red, to-morrow dead.
To-morrow's remedy will not ward off the evil of to-day.
The well-bred hound, if he does not hunt to-day will hunt to-morrow.
Yesterday a cowherd, to-day a cavalier.
A nobody to-day, a prince to-morrow.
To-morrow we will credit it, not to-day.
That which is his lot to-day may be yours to-morrow.
He fell to-day, I may fall to-morrow.
To-morrow is the pupil of to-day.
One hour to-day is worth two to-morrow.
The tortoise is friends with the snail: those with shells keep their shells close together.
When a tortoise embarks on a journey he doesn't ask for directions, because he does not want his enemies to know where he's going.
It is not only the hare, the tortoise arrives also at the destination.
It is the fear of what tomorrow may bring that makes the tortoise to carry his house along with him wherever he goes.
The child is capable of splitting open the snail, not the tortoise.
The wise man and the tortoise travel but never leave their home.
The tortoise said it wants to box, but its hand is too short.
The fly that bites the tortoise breaks its beak.
After taking ninety-nine years to climb a stairway, the tortoise falls and says there is a curse on haste.
What does the tortoise care for flies?
When you are eating with a blind man, do not touch his hand.
Learning is a treasure no thief can touch.
A wicked man's gift has a touch of his master.
Touch a gaw'd horse on the back and he'll fling.
Touch a galled horse and he'll wince.
Bees touch no fading flowers.
To touch the earth is to have harmony with nature.
She can touch your lobes but never your latinum.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
Learning is treasure no thief can touch.
If you don't want a tail of a monkey to touch you then don't attend the monkey dance.
A bee does not touch a withered flower.
Touch me not on the fair heel.
A wicked man's gift hath a touch of his master.
At the pharmacy don't taste, at the blacksmith's don't touch.
A wicked man's gift hath a touch of his master.
Touch wood. (20th century)
The fortunate need only touch earth, and it becomes gold.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
Whether you touch it, or you eat it, it's still garlic.
You cannot touch pitch and not be defiled.
No one is tall enough to reach up and touch the heavens. No one is broad enough to lift his gaze over the whole earth. [...] But you, who roar like a storm -- may you establish yourself like a lion. [...] No man can bring about your demise.
No one has seen to-morrow.
The man will surely fail, who dares delay, and lose to-morrow that has lost to-day.
Joy and sorrow are to-day and to-morrow.
If you care for healing the tooth of a tutsi that he recovers, he will surely bite you to-morrow.
To-day's sorrow brings nought to-morrow.
He that spares something to-day will have something to-morrow.
To-day stately and brave, to-morrow in the grave.
He that falls to-day may be up again to-morrow.
Be merry, Shrovetide, for to-morrow thou wilt be ashes.
Defer not till to-morrow what may be done to-day.
Rather the egg to-day than the hen to-morrow.
To-day red, to-morrow dead.
He who does not improve to-day will grow worse to-morrow.
To-day for money, to-morrow for nothing.
To-day in finery, to-morrow in filth.
Merchant to-day, beggar to-morrow.
If you laugh to-day, you will cry to-morrow.
What is wrong to-day won't be right to-morrow.
To-day red, to-morrow dead.
Every to-morrow brings its bread.
From to-morrow till to-morrow time goes a long journey.
Married to-day, married to-morrow.
The well-bred hound, if he does not hunt to-day will hunt to-morrow.
To-morrow will be another day.
A nobody to-day, a prince to-morrow.
To-morrow we will credit it, not to-day.
That which is his lot to-day may be yours to-morrow.
Now a layman, to-morrow a clerk.
He fell to-day, I may fall to-morrow.
To-morrow is the pupil of to-day.
One hour to-day is worth two to-morrow.
One son is no son, two sons is no son, but three sons is a son.
Men have three ears: one on the left of the head, one on the right of the head, and one in the heart.
These three take crooked ways: carts, boats, and musicians.
Before preparing to improve the world, first look around your own home three times.
A fence lasts three years, a dog lasts three fences, a horse three dogs, and a man three horses.
A thorn, a hound's tooth, a fool's word: these are the three sharpest things.
Mother Nature, time and patience are the three best doctors.
There are three kinds of enemy: the enemy himself, the friends of your enemy, and the enemies of your friends.
Children: one is one, two is fun, three is a houseful.
If there is a rich man in the area three villages are ruined.
Three years will eradicate even murderous thoughts.
Anyone who goes hungry for three days will be inclined to steal.
When you have three daughters, you sleep with the door open.
If you starve for three days, there is no thought that does not invade your imagination.
Woman was born three days earlier than the devil.
Three hairs are quickly combed.
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
If one, two and three say you are an ass, put on the ears.
A secret between two is god's secret; a secret between three is known to all.
I have to learn how to walk on three legs says the hyena for when I am old.
Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face.
Three daughters and a mother are four devils for a father.
Three kinds of people die poor: those who divorce, those who incur debts, and those who move around too much.
Every word has three definitions and three interpretations.
Get three darkovans together and they hold a dance.
There are old men of three years old and children of a hundred.
If you are going to sit on it for three years, the seat will certainly get warm.
After three years useless things are useful too.
A three inch tongue -- the iron bulwark of politics.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
Before you plan to improve the world, look around your own house three times.
Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional.
A cat has nine lives; for three he plays, for three he strays, and for the last three he stays.
If three people tell you that you are drunk, you better lie down.
There are three kinds of people; those that make things happen, those that watch things happen and those who don't know what's happening.
It takes three generation to make a gentleman.
There are three things that can destroy a preacher, the glory, the gold, and the girls.
There are three faithful friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
With one child you may walk; with two you may ride; when you have three, at home you must bide.
Three things to fear: a crumbling wall, an angry dog, and a shrew.
One white foot, buy him; two white feet, try him; three white feet, look well about him; four white feet, go without him.
There are three creatures beyond ruling – a mule, a pig and a woman.
The three faults of drinking are: a sorrowful morning, a dirty coat, and an empty pocket.
Limerick was, Dublin is, and Cork shall be the finest city of the three.
Better one good thing that is, rather than two good things that were, or three good things that might never come to pass.
Three people can keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
Three things that can't be taught: generosity, poetry and a singing voice.
Three hundred ravens are scattered by one stone.
He that has a hawk has three hundred partridges.
Look at the strainer that tells the skimmer: You have three holes.
There are three things that have to be done quickly: burying the dead, opening the door for a stranger, and fixing your daughter's wedding.
Three or four daily will bring you to the bottom of the sack.
Better no doctor at all than three.
To sing to the deaf, to talk with the dumb, and to dance for the blind are three foolish things.
Fish and guests smell when they are three days old.
When three people say you are drunk, go to sleep.
He who works by himself does the work of three people.
A new broom is good for three days.
To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of.
Three things drive a man out of doors: smoke, dropping water, and a shrew.
From shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations.
No wonder lasts more than three days.
Three know it, all know it.
Three may keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
A book whos sale's forbidden all men rush to see, and prohibition turns one reader into three.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
Of three things the devil makes a salad: advocate's tongues, notaries' fingers, and a third that shall be nameless.
Three women and a goose make a market.
He who saves shall have as much as three.
The wedding lasts for two or three days, but the trouble stays longer.
There were once three brothers: a lie, theft and the gallows.
Where two Jews, three opinions.
The matchmaker gets three cups of wine when he succeeds and three slaps on the cheek when he fails.
Even the most welcome guest is more than enough for three days.
The hungarian justice is three.
Save three pieces of gold and the fourth one will fall into your lap.
What three men know then the whole world knows.
Three comforts of old age: fire, tea and tobacco.
Three remedies of the physicians of myddfal: water, honey, and labour.
Known by three; known by the king.
When pisa burned, it rained three nights and three days.
Who weds a widow with three children takes four thieves into his house.
Who goes to the fair without money, goes with one problem and returns with three.
A brave man is scared of a lion three times: first when he sees the tracks; second when he hears the first roar; and third when they are face to face.
An ape, a priest, and a louse, are three devils in one house.
To marry once is a duty, twice a folly, and three times - madness.
Two communists lead three hundred unaffiliated.
Wait three years for promised.
No matter how tough the current of a river may be it is the calabash that triumphal over the river.
Let him eat the tough morsel who eat the tender.
Acts tough but really a wimp.
You need a sharp axe for a tough bough.
It's tough to find fool's; ten in every other house.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
Tough times don't last, tough people do.
Eating tough meat is always harder for a toothless lion.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
It is the kindness, and not the harshness, in the headmaster's voice that pushes tough boys to cry.
A thorn, a hound's tooth, a fool's word: these are the three sharpest things.
To resist with hand and tooth.
An ivory tooth is not cure for the lost tooth.
I ate honey in my childhood, and its sweetness is still in my tooth.
An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
Unless the broken tooth is thrown out the mouth will continue to chew with caution.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth.
A good word never broke a tooth.
The tongue goes to the aching tooth.
Do not look at the tooth of a gift horse.
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
When you pull the tooth, it will stop hurting.
If you care for healing the tooth of a tutsi that he recovers, he will surely bite you to-morrow.
The tongue always returns to the sore tooth.
A sharp tooth for hard bread.
A loose tooth will not rest until it's pulled out.
A man with a missing tooth does not eat ugiri with relish.
Until the rotten tooth is pulled out cautiously, the mouth will not have rest.
The tooth is a fool because it smiles to whom it even dislikes.
A white tooth has a bloody root.
A sharp tooth for hard bread.
The tongue goes to where the tooth aches.
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
The tooth laughs with the lance.
A whale's tooth in a whale's jaw.
The tongue goes to where the tooth aches.
Three things are not to be trusted; a cow's horn, a dog's tooth, and a horse's hoof.
A loose tooth will not rest until it's pulled out.
The eye can see it, but the tooth can't bite it.
If a man wants to grow a long tooth, he should have the lip to cover it.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth.
Do not throw the arrow which will return against you.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
If a woman sees a stick for beating her rival, she will throw it away in the woods.
If he has thrown the only spear he had at you, it means that he doesn't fear you.
Do not eat your chicken and throw its feathers in the front yard.
The widow is just as fiery as the horse that threw her.
All freight lightens, said the skipper, when he threw his wife overboard.
Don't throw out the dirty water until you have the clean water in.
Give me, mother, luck at my birth, then throw me if you will on the rubbish heap.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than a stone thrown at the wrong time.
The mud that you throw will fall on your own head.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than gold given at the wrong time.
He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at his neighbour's.
Don't throw the handle after the bill.
You cannot throw a word out of a song.
You can't throw a handkerchief over somebody's mouth.
Do good and throw it into the sea - if it is not appreciated by an ungrateful man, it will be appreciated by God.
If you live in a glass house, don't throw stones.
He whose house is made out of glass, shouldn't throw stones at people.
No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim.
Never throw the cat at the dog.
Do not drink from a well and throw a stone into it.
If you give people nuts, you'll get shells thrown at you.
Don't throw out the old pot until you have the tinker makes a new one.
The hunter who is tracking an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
If you have a dog, don't throw away bones.
When a blind man tells you he is going to throw a stone, know that his foot is on the stone.
Unless the broken tooth is thrown out the mouth will continue to chew with caution.
Don't throw out the baby with the bath water.
Don't throw out your dirty water until you get in fresh.
He that lives in a glass house must not throw stones.
If your house is of glass, don't throw rocks at others.
A throw without a thrower.
Do good and throw it in the tigris and god will repay you in the desert.
He who lives in a glass house should not throw stones.
It is dangerous to eat cherries with the great, they throw the stones at your head.
Don't throw rocks if you live in a house of glass.
Don't throw away dirty water before you have more clean water.
He who lives in a glass house should be the last to throw stones.
Sometimes you have to throw yourself into the fire to escape from the smoke.
Who holds his peace and gathers stones, will find a time to throw them.
The ox that tossed me threw me into a good place.
God gives food to every bird, but does not throw it into the nest.
If you throw a handful of stones, one at least will hit.
He was thrown into deep water.
He has stirred up, or threw a stone into, still water.
A fool may throw a stone into a well which a hundred wise cannot take out.
Don't throw your blanket in the fire just because it has one flea in it.
God gives every bird his worm, but he does not throw it into the nest.
A woman is like a lemon; you squeeze her and throw her away.
You don't throw rocks at a green mango.
Gold glitters in what is thrown away.
Every little helps to lighten the freight, said the captain, as he threw his wife overboard.
It is only the tree loaded with fruit that the people throw stones.
A fool may throw into a well a stone which a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
If you throw nettles into your neighbors garden you will find them growing in your own.
Do not throw a stone at the mouse and break the precious vase.
He that marries a widow will often have a dead man's head thrown into the dish.
When they fooled the chicken they threw her into a carrying basket.
Try this bracelet: if it fits you wear it; but if it hurts you, throw it away no matter how shiny.
A dog knows the places he is thrown food.
Two heads cut off and thrown high into the tree have only the winds with which to scheme.
Throw out a sprat to catch a mackerel.
To forget is the same as to throw away.
Throw the baby out with the bath water.
A woman is like a blanket: If you cover yourself with it, it bothers you; if you throw it aside you will feel the cold.
Charity is not a bone you throw to a dog, but a bone you share with a dog.
He who takes revenge for a small insult, will have a bigger one thrown at him.
Words are like arrows throw them only when you know where they will fall.
Every time you have something good there is someone who wants you to throw it so as they can pick it.
The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
If you live in a glasshouse you should not throw stones.
You don't have to lie down at the spot where your enemy has thrown you.
A coward always hides behind someone else after he has thrown a stone.
Don't throw away your nets if you catch nothing, you never know what the gods are planning next.
It is difficult to throw a stone at a lizard which is clinging to a pot.
Charity is not a bone you throw to your dog but a bone you share with your dog.
Don't throw away your dirty water until you get clean.
Don't throw dirt into the well that gives you water.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
Sometimes people who live in glass houses throw stones because their windows are painted.
Throw a lucky man into the sea, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth.
Throw a resourceful person into a river, and he will probably come out with a fish in his hand.
I taught him archery everyday, and when he got good at it he throw an arrow at me.
Literal meaning: Give me long life and throw me in the sea.
Throw dirt enough, and some will stick.
Throw him into the river and he will come up with a fish in his mouth.
Because he has so many trades, he is unemployed.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
The man of many trades begs his bread on Sunday.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
Many trades, begging the best.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
Jack of all trades is master of none.
There are no foolish trades, there are only foolish people.
Jack of all trades and master of None. (18th century)
Jack of all trades and master of none.
'tis written, "what's not your own, that let alone.”.
‘Tis either a hare or a brake-bush.
'tis easier to hurt than heal.
'tis his turn to-day, it will be mine to-morrow.
'tis not for everyone to catch a salmon.
'tis hard to swim against the stream.
Tis a silly sheep that confesses to the wolf.
Tis good feasting in other men's houses.
'tis altogether vain to learn wisdom, and yet live foolishly.
'tis too late to spare when the cask is bare.
'tis well that wicked cows have short horns.
'tis the taste that tells the tale.
'tis money that begets money.
'tis one beggar's woe, to see another by the door go.
Once is people's mouths, 'tis hard to get well out of them.
'tis too late to spare, when the bottom is bare.
'tis the mind ennobles, not the blood.
Both legs in the stocks or only one, 'tis all the same.
'tis afterwards that everything is understood.
‘Tis as hard to see a woman cry, as a goose go barefoot.
Drunkenness and anger, 'tis said tell the truth.
When the wind is in the east, 'tis neither good for man nor beast.
'tis a wise child that knows its own father.
‘Tis best woo where a man can see the smoke.
Give at first asking what you safely can; 'tis certain gain to help an honest man.
In eating 'tis good to begin, one morsel helps the other in.
‘Tis day still, while the sun shines.
Tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all.
‘Tis as necessary to him as gold weights are to a beggar.
'tis a good farthing that saves a penny.
'tis possible if true.
Words are but sands; 'tis money buys lands.
'tis a good horse that has no fault.
'Tis a hard winter when one wolf eats another.
Tis wisdom sometimes to seem a fool.
'tis the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
If in february there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain.
Promises may make friends, but 'tis performances that keep them.
'tis never too late to mend.
'Tis a sorry ass that will not bear his own burden.
Tis better to be a coward than fool-hardie.
'tis a long day a day without bread.
'tis a silly sheep that makes the wolf her confessor.
'tis sweet at certain times to drop the sage.
Tis folly to love fetters, though they be of gold.
Though this may be play to you,
'Tis death to us.
'Tis a stinger.
When the bait is more than the fish, 'tis time to stop fishing.
'Tis as cheap sitting as standing.
Do when ye may, or suffer ye the nay, in love 'tis the way.
As if it weren't bad enough to fall, the ladder lands on top of you.
I've seen your top, i've seen your bottom also.
Coffee from the top of the cup and chocolate from the bottom.
Hens perched on top will shit on those below.
Boil the water and the scum will rise to the top.
There are many paths to the top of the mountain, but the view is always the same.
There is a path to the top of even the highest mountain.
However tall the mountain is, there's a road to the top of it.
There are no shortcuts to the top of the palm tree.
If you want to sweep the steps clean, start at the top.
If a child shoots an arrow that reaches the top of a tall palm tree, then it must be that an elderly person carved the arrow for him.
A lizard that fell from the top of a tree wastes its time looking back to where it fell from; if there was anything good the lizard deserved, it could not have missed it while it was there on top of the tree.
Push the stone to the top of the mountain.
Life is like a wheel, sometimes at the top, sometimes at the bottom.
The fish at the top edge of the fire.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
When you climb the mountain and reach the top, do not forget the branches shrubs that helped your footing.
Cream doesn't rise to the top, it works its way up.
A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in.
What is now top of the mast, will be firewood soon.
Every top stands on its own bottom.
A single roll of taro top is delicious if seasoned with affection.
A flea on the top of a bald head - it is only too apparent.
There are many paths up the mountain, but the view from the top is always the same.
When riding on top of an elephant do not assume there is no dew in the thicket.
Cream always rises to the top.
When you see a turtle on top of a fence post, you know he had some help.
It's not the monkey on top that make a tree fall but it's the work and effort of numerous small insects and ants.
A palm wine taper does not stop tapping palm wine because he once fell from the top of a palm wine tree.
A tree climber begins from the bottom not the top.
Ability will enable a man to get to the top, but character will keep him from falling.
There is always room at the top.
If you think you've reached the top, watch out, you can fall just as quickly.
The world is a wheel, there are some at the top and some who go to the bottom.
The unqualified man desires to climb to the top; the bad man desires to sit at the head of the table.
There are no shortcuts to the top of the palm tree.
An adult squatting sees farther than a child on top of tree.
The hand that is on top is better than the hand that is below.
A crooked top on a crooked kettle.
The buffalo's shit is dry on top when inside its wet.
What reaches the top of the hill cannot be called back.
The first camel in the train holds everyone up, but it is the last which gets the beating.
It isn't the whistle that pulls the train.
Train equally the mind and body.
When planning for a year, plant corn. When planning for a decade, plant trees. When planning for life, train and educate people.
Train a child the way he should go and make sure you you also go the same way.
It isn't the whistle that pulls the train.
Train up a child in the way he should go.
A bold man has luck in his train.
Intelligence comes, but in the evening train.
If there is no traitor in your house, the witches will never be able to get at you.
Once conquered - always a traitor.
The treason is loved, the traitor hated.
The hasty man was never a traitor.
The treason approved, the traitor abhorred.
He who speaks to your face is not a traitor.
Give a traitor good words and you make him loyal.
Even if christ's death could have been prevented, judas would still be a traitor.
He who drinks wine without libation is a traitor to the gods.
Two false men to one traitor.
The king likes the treachery, but not the traitor.
The heart is no traitor.
He who does not fully speak the truth is a traitor to it.
He who does not speak the whole truth is a traitor to truth.
Kings love the treason, but not the traitor.
Treachery will come home to the traitor.
Eat when the food is ready; speak when the time is right.
Time does not wait for anyone.
Time discloses the truth.
In the planting season visitors come singly, and in harvest time they come in crowds.
There is a time to speak and a time to be silent.
No man can paddle two canoes at the same time.
You may well have two legs but you still can't climb two trees at the same time.
Every camel was once upon time two years old.
A wolf's repentance died a long time ago.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
A stich in time saves nine.
If you want to dismantle a hedge, remove one thorn bush at a time.
There is no time like the present.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Copying everybody else all the time, the monkey one day cut his throat.
Life is short and time is swift.
The hyena chasing two antelopes at the same time will go to bed hungry.
A dog that barks all the time gets little attention.
When the vine entwines your roof, it is time to cut it down.
The dowry that a woman brings is like a bell; every time she passes by she hits you with the clapper.
He was never good since the time a yard made a coat for him.
Mother Nature, time and patience are the three best doctors.
When its time has arrived, the prey becomes the hunter.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than a stone thrown at the wrong time.
When its time has come, the prey goes to the hunter.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than gold given at the wrong time.
Basketeer who makes a basket makes a hundred if he's given line and time.
It's hard to please greeks and trojans at the same time.
Something done at the wrong time should be regarded as not done.
There is no hand to catch time.
There is no appeal from time past.
A crowd is like a smoldering log which can spark into a flame at any time.
Too much hurry, and get there tomorrow; take time, get there today.
You can't complain about the sea if you suffer shipwreck for the second time.
People say that time goes by; time says that the people go by.
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
Our time runs on like a stream; first fall the leaves and then the tree.
It is not enough to run; you must start on time.
Time makes the best healer.
Every seed knows its time.
Every vegetable has its time.
The day you are leaving is not the time to start your preparations.
Every time one laughs a nail is removed from one's coffin.
When it's time to fry the beans, you can't do without lard.
Be deligent when there's time.
Do use a needle in time, or you might need an axe later.
It's like catching 2 eels at a time.
Man fears time – time fears the pyramids.
A lame man always speaks when it's time to run.
Those who rush things too much, without reflection, can be surpassed by those who take their time.
Truth is like sugar cane; even if you chew it for a long time, it is still sweet.
Flint and gunpowder: every time they meet there is an explosion.
Do not waste your time looking for soft ground to drive your spade in.
Even if a log lies in the water for a long time, it does not become a crocodile.
To be a fool at the right time is also an art.
When all men say you are a dog, it is time to bark.
Time will give you the best disguise.
If the time has passed, there is no point in preparing.
He who listened to the woman suffered famine at harvest time.
Time is longer than a rope.
A careful hyena lives a long time.
We celebrated at the wax door, and all the time the honeycomb was empty within.
He who is after two things at the same time, one will surely escape him.
Disgrace is like the grain of a tree trunk -- time makes it bigger instead of erasing it.
Better to write down something one time than to read something ten times.
Greetings are the patron gods of our time.
The poor have no time to spare.
Time spent laughing is time spent with the kami [gods].
By the time the fool has learned the game, the players have dispersed.
To get through the hardest journey we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping.
Study without reflection is a waste of time; reflection without study is dangerous.
Time flies when you are among friends.
He hasn't time even to scratch his head.
The cock that loses its pace time of cockadoodle should be dressed otherwise it will misguide you.
At that particular time a mad person gives you something take it immediately before he changes is mind.
It may take a lot of time to fabricate a lie but the truth only takes seconds to elevate.
Two rams cannot drink from the same bucket at the same time; they will lock horns.
There is a time to fish and a time to dry nets.
Opportunities, like eggs, come one at a time.
If your time ain't come not even a doctor can kill you.
Drink and frankfurters for a dime; kill a man before his time.
One at a time is good fishing; two at a time is making a hog of yourself.
Time flies when you're having fun.
It is no time to stoop when the head is off.
Time has eaten and drank upon it.
They asked a bullfrog, "Why do you croak all the time?” He replied, "I'm enchanted with my voice.”.
Time betrays and hangs the thief.
Time is the best preacher.
Ain't over till the fat lady sings.
A postponement till morning A postponement for ever.
Never cast a clout till May be out.
You can wait till the cows come home.
Anger is the only thing to put off till tomorrow.
No call alligator long mouth till you pass him.
Do not halloo till you are out of the wood.
Covetousness is never satisfied till its mouth is filled with earth.
Gold is a debt we can repay, but kindness not till our dying day.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
Don't cry till you are out of the wood.
The opera isn't over till the fat lady sings.
Make not the sauce till you have caught the fish.
Laugh till you cry, sorrow till you die.
He that gapes until he be fed, well may he gape till he be dead.
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
One story is good till another is told.
Let your trouble tarry till its own day comes.
Don't fly till your wings are feathered.
It is not till the cow has lost her tail, that she discovers its value.
If you get a reputation as an early riser, you can sleep till noon.
When the goat goes to church, he does not stop till he gets to the altar.
Don't bid the devil good day till you meet him.
Of small account is a fly till it gets into the eye.
Don't crow till you're out of the woods.
There is no feast till a roast and no torment till a marriage.
You never miss the water till the well has run dry.
No lamp burns till morning.
The ass does not know the value of his tail till he has lost it.
September blow soft till the fruit's in the loft.
A friend is not known till he is lost.
The ass does not know the worth of this tail till he has lost it.
Don't bite till you know whether it is bread or a stone.
Acorns were good till bread was found.
If the owner of two adjacent farms cannot be friends, then they must wait till their next reincarnation to be able to make friends.
Darg-flea tell him pickeny him mustn't say him dead till him ketch pon finger nail.
Every man honest till de day him ketch.
Frog never gargle him troat till him tas'e fresh water.
Don't sell the skin till you've caught the bear.
The fly flutters about the candle till at last it gets burnt.
The fly flutters around the candle till it gets burnt.
Don't cry holloa! till you're out of the bush.
No man knoweth fortune till he dies.
Who drinks till bottom, lives without mind.
Habit is a shirt that we wear till death.
Peace lasts till the army comes, and the army lasts till peace comes.
Call the bear "uncle” till you are safe across the bridge.
No matter how much snow falls, it won't remain there all the way till summer.
Before you marry, have a house to live in, fields to till, and vines to cut.
Call me not fortunate till you see me buried.
When a good offer comes for your daughter, don't wait till her father returns from market.
The sufferer goes through hell till the truth comes out.
Don't cross the bridge till you come to it.
Give neither counsel or salt till you are asked for it.
Never ask a favor of someone till they have had their dinner.
Ne'er cast a clout till May be out.
Wait till you trough put, then bubble in it.
Don't call the alligator a big-mouth till you have crossed the river.
Defer not till to-morrow what may be done to-day.
If you want to know how the true story goes, wait till the arguments start.
My son's my son till he gets him a wife; my daughter's my daughter all of her life.
Never venture out of your depth till you can swim.
Never cast a clout till May be out.
A son is a son 'till he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all her life.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow.
It's not over till it's over.
Never do today what you can put off till tomorrow.
A son is a son till he gets him a wife, but a daughter's a daughter the rest of your life.
Don't trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
A tear bedews my Delia's eye, From morn till dewy eve; But if you ask the reason why, She can't tell, I believe.
Trust no one till you have eaten a bushel of salt with him.
Don't throw away your dirty water till you have got clean.
Don't cry hurra! till your are over the hedge (till you are out of the wood).
Don't cry "Hurra!" till you are over the ditch.
Do not divide the spoil till the victory is won.
Money is like muck – no good till spread.
Don't bless the fish till it gets to the land.
Men are like bagpipes: no sound comes from them till they're full.
We'll never know the worth of water till the well go dry.
Call no man happy till he dies.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
Postpone today's anger till tomorrow.
Do not put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
A three day long merry-making and regret lasting till death.
Call the bear uncle till you are safe across the bridge.
It's better to see once than hear a hundred times.
You are so many times a human how many languages you know.
Measure a thousand times and cut once.
Before preparing to improve the world, first look around your own home three times.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
He is bad that will not take advice, but he is a thousand times worse that takes every advice.
Who has not had a taste longs to do so, but for whom has tasted then the longing is a hundred times more.
Better once to see than many times to hear.
Cabbage is best after it is reheated seven times.
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times.
Measure seven times, cut once.
Better to be red-faced once than 100 times purple.
A brave man dies but once, a coward many times.
Find as much love as was given by your father and mother many times.
What you give you get, ten times over.
What you give you get, ten times over.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight.
Better to write down something one time than to read something ten times.
Great deeds come from times of shortage.
Inquire seven times then doubt a person.
Times keep changing.
We forget even incense in easy times; come hard times, we embrace the buddha's feet.
A real friend is one who takes the hand of his friend in times of distress and helplessness.
Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional.
In times of need a pig is called uncle.
If you are in the house of a friend, bad times are soon forgotten.
The sound of a church bell at times has more effect than a sermon.
Perseverance is failing nineteen times and succeeding the twentieth.
Cowards die many times, but a brave man only dies once.
Everyone puts his fault on the times.
Suit yourself to the times.
You are permitted in times of great danger to walk with the devil until you have crossed the bridge.
It is better in times of need to have a friend rather than money.
In times of difficulty, friendship is on trial.
If one has to jump a stream and knows how wide it is, he will not jump. If he does not know how wide it is, he will jump, and six times out of ten he will make it.
All times are good when old.
Different times different manners.
Times are not always the same; the grass is not always green.
A man fails seven times and rises eight times.
An ant-hill that is destined to become a giant ant-hill will definitely become one, no matter how many times it is destroyed by elephants.
If it weren't for sorrow and bad times, every day would be christmas.
The macaco doesn't climb up the acacia tree two times.
In times of famine no bread is stale.
It is better one time to see things than one hundred times to hear about them.
A brave man is scared of a lion three times: first when he sees the tracks; second when he hears the first roar; and third when they are face to face.
Better ruined ten times than dead once.
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
To marry once is a duty, twice a folly, and three times - madness.
Turn your tongue seven times before speaking.
Together in good and bad times.
Measure thy cloth ten times, thou canst cut it but once.
Cowards die many times.
You can shear a sheep many times but you can skin him only once.
Bad times came to be; hens on thrones we were to see.
Even in the worst of times someone turns a profit.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
Three times measure, one time cut.
A judge knows nothing unless it has been explained to him three times.
Measure three times before you cut once.
In times of trouble, leniency becomes crime.
A just man falls seven times, and rises up again.
A buddha's face when asked three times.
Fall six times, rise seven.
Fall six times, stand up seven.
It is better to write down something once than read it ten times.
Seeing once is better than hearing a hundred times.
All things happen when their times come.
Tough times don't last, tough people do.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than that which is given by the sword.
In good times friends know you and in bad times you know them.
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
You can shear a sheep many times but you can skin him only once.
A brave man dies but once, a coward many times.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
You can't grease a "pig" so many times that he can't be greased one more time.
In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty.
A broken watch is right two times a day.
The cure for bad times is patience.
Be careful of your enemy once and of your friend a thousand times, for a double crossing friend knows more evil.
Literal meaning: The friend in tight times.
Other times, other folk.
In times of emergency the devil eats flies.
Cowards may die many times before their death.
A good friend is recognized in times of trouble.
Times passes like the wind.
Other times, other counsels.
Times tries a'.
If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
Fools enter where brave men fear to tread.
A trodden path bears no grass.
Tired oxen must tread hard.
He who lies on the ground must expect to be trodden on.
Old oxen tread hard.
Neutrals tread on eggs and break none.
The lehua blossom unfolds when the rains tread on it.
All feet tread not in one shoe.
Even though you tread slowly over your rice field it will become muddy.
Tread on the ball, live to spend all.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
He who treads on eggs, must tread lightly.
Bare-footed men need not tread upon thorns.
Barefooted folk shouldna tread on thorns.
Barefit fowk shouldnae tread on thorns.
Green is the grass of the least trodden field.
Don't tread on the tail of a sleeping snake.
The hedge is trodden down where it seems to lean.
Fools enter where brave men fear to tread.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
Tread on thorns with your shoes on.
Who has ever seen tomorrow?
Do today what you want ro postpone until tomorrow.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
Don't leave for tomorrow what you can do today.
When a friend asks, there is no tomorrow.
Anger is the only thing to put off until tomorrow.
If I know I will die tomorrow, I can still learn something tonight.
Anger is the only thing to put off till tomorrow.
Too much hurry, and get there tomorrow; take time, get there today.
Postpone today's anger until tomorrow.
Think today and speak tomorrow.
Do it today! tomorrow it might be forbidden.
Wild ducks and tomorrow both come without calling.
Don't leave today's work for tomorrow.
The costly news of today will be free tomorrow.
News that's for money today will be for free tomorrow.
When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes.
When you wait for tomorrow it never comes. When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes.
Today butterflies, tomorrow wasps.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
If the fight is tomorrow, why then clench your fist today?
If the fight is tomorrow, then why should you clench your fist today?
Say what you have to say, tomorrow.
For tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it today.
Here today, gone tomorrow.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Tomorrow is another day.
Today it may be a fire, tomorrow it will be ashes.
When friends ask, there is no tomorrow.
He who falls today. may rise tomorrow.
Never put off tomorrow what you can do today.
Give me today and you may keep tomorrow.
Better one today, than two tomorrow.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
All the flowers of tomorrow are in the seeds of yesterday.
Who can say for sure that one will live to see tomorrow.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
It is the fear of what tomorrow may bring that makes the tortoise to carry his house along with him wherever he goes.
Tomorrow is the day that idlers get busy.
Tideh fi mi, tomorrow fi yu.
Don't put off today's work till tomorrow.
Praise your horse tomorrow, your son when he has a beard, your daughter when she is married and yourself never.
Just toss it in my hat and I'll sort it tomorrow.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Fortune is a woman; if you neglect her today do not expect to regain her tomorrow.
Rooster today, feather duster tomorrow.
Plan your life as though you were going to live forever, but live today as if you were going to die tomorrow.
Fear does not empty tomorrow of its sadness; it empties today of its power.
Tomorrow is another day.
Don't praise tomorrow because tomorrow praises itself.
Don't do today what you can put off until tomorrow.
If you want to see what your body will look like tomorrow, look at your thoughts today.
Mother carry me, and I tomorrow will carry you.
Do not wait until tomorrow to hunt.
Do not leave todays homework for tomorrow.
Eat and take belly, because tomorrow the assistant of the executioner will come to take the skin.
What you can do today do not leave off for tomorrow.
Tomorrow never comes.
Live today for tomorrow it will all be history.
Mother carry me, and I tomorrow will carry you.
Yesterday is ashes; tomorrow wood. Only today does the fire burn brightly.
Yesterday, today and tomorrow -- these are the three days of man.
The rich man plans for tomorrow, the poor man for today.
Jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but never jam today.
An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow.
If you're very unkind today don't expect favours tomorrow.
If you want a better tomorrow do good today.
If you wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes. If you don't wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes.
A neglected duty may returns tomorrow with seven others at its back.
An egg today is worth a hen tomorrow.
Be gay today, for tomorrow you may die.
Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow your wife may come home.
Learn as you'd live forever; live as you'd die tomorrow.
Boast not of tomorrow, for you know not what the day may bring forth.
Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we shall die.
Fret today, regret tomorrow.
One of the greatest labor-saving inventions of today is tomorrow.
Avoid the pleasure which will bite tomorrow.
Tomorrow is a new day.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow.
Never do today what you can put off till tomorrow.
Eat, drink, be merry, for tomorrow we die.
They have sowed the seed of the word "tomorrow” and it has not germinated.
Don't delay today's work until tomorrow.
It may be a fire today, but tomorrow it will be only ashes.
A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.
When the devil reigns today God will be master tomorrow.
Transliteration (pinyin): Sān gè héshàng méi shuǐ hē.
Transliteration: Akatikkut tēyvamē tuṇai.
Transliteration: Akappaṭṭavaṉukku aṣṭamattuc caṉi, ōṭippōṉavaṉukku oṉpatām iṭattu irājā.
Transliteration: Akala iruntāl nikaḷa uṟavu, kiṭṭavantāl muṭṭap pakai.
Transliteration: Akāriyattil pakīratap piriyattaṉamā ceykiṟatu?
Transliteration: Akkarai māṭṭukku ikkarai paccai.
Transliteration: Akkāḷ paṇṭam arici, taṅkacci paṇṭam taviṭu.
Transliteration: Akkiyāṉam piṭitta muṇṭaikkuc civakkiyāṉam eṉṟu pēr.
Transliteration: Akkuttokku illātavaṉukkut tukkam ētu?
Transliteration: Aṅkum iruppāṉ, iṅkum iruppāṉ, ākkiṉa coṟṟukkup paṅkum iruppāṉ.
Transliteration: Acattukku vāykkappaṭṭu (vāḻkkaippaṭṭu) āyiram varuṣam vāḻvataiviṭa, caṭṭattukku vāykkappaṭṭuc caṭṭeṉṟu tāli iruppatē mēlē.
Transliteration: Acalilē piṟanta kasmālam.
Transliteration: Acal vīṭṭukkāraṉukkup parintukoṇṭu, āmpuṭaiyāṉai aṭittāḷām.
Transliteration: Añci naṭakkiṟavarkaḷukkuk kālamalla.
Transliteration: Añcaṉakkāraṉ mutukil vañcaṉaikkāraṉ ēṟiṉāṉ.
Transliteration: Añca eḻuttum pāvaṉaiyum appaṉaippōlirukkiṟatu.
Transliteration: Aintu vayatu piḷḷaikku aimpatu vayatu peṇ kāl muṭakkavēṇṭum.
Transliteration: Aṭakkamuṭaiyār aṟiñar, aṭaṅkātār kallār.
Transliteration: Aṭi eṉkiṟa mantiriyumillai, piṭi eṉkiṟa rājaṉumillai.
Transliteration: Aṭi oṭṭi allavō mēṟkaraṇam pōṭavēṇṭum.
Transliteration: Aṭi atiracam, kuttu koḻukkaṭṭai.
Transliteration: Aṭitta ērukkum, kuṭitta kūḻukkum cari.
Transliteration: Aṭiyum paṭṭup puḷitta māṅkāyum tiṉṉavēṇṭumā?
Transliteration: Aṭutta kūrai vēkumpōtu, taṉ kūraikku mōcam.
Transliteration: Aṭuttavaṉaik keṭukkalāmā?
Transliteration: Aṭuttu aṭuttuc coṉṉāl toṭutta kāriyam muṭiyum.
Transliteration: Aṭuppē vaṉavācam, kaṭuppē kailācam.
Transliteration: Aṣṭat tarittiram piṭittavaṉ amarāvatiyil vāḻkiṟāṉ eṉṟu nittiyat tarittiram piṭittavaṉ niṉṟa nilaiyilē iṭṭukkoṇṭu vantāṉ.
Transliteration: Aṇil ēṟaviṭṭa nāypōl.
Transliteration: Aṇṭa niḻalillāmalpōṉālum, pēr ālāla virukṣam.
Transliteration: Aṇṭai mēlē kōpam, kaṭāviṉ mēlē kāṭṭiṉatu pōla (or āṟiṉatupōl).
Transliteration: Aṇṇaṉ pēril irunta kōpattai nāy pēril āṟṟiṉāṉ.
Transliteration: Aṇṇaṉtāṉ kūṭap piṟantāṉ, aṇṇi kūṭap piṟantāḷā?
Transliteration: Atiṣṭam āṟāy perukiṟatu.
Transliteration: Āṟṟilē āyiram kāṇi tāṉa paṇṇiṉāṟpōla.
Transliteration: Ēṭṭuc curakkāy kaṟikku ākumā?
Transliteration: Māḷikai kaṭṭi vaṉkuraṅku (or maranāy) kaṭṭiṉatupōla.
Transliteration (pinyin): Fáng rén zhī xīn bùkě wú.
Transliteration (pinyin): Zìzhù zhě tiānzhù.
Transliteration: Kra-tie' mai jhun.
Transliteration: Ling yang tok ton mai.
Transliteration: Tiṭṭik keṭṭārumillai, vāḻtti vāḻntārumillai.
In times of difficulty, friendship is on trial.
One ducat before the trial is worth three afterwards.
It is usual of a person found guilty in a trial to boast that he would press his case further.
Truth fears no trial.
A trial between brothers has no winners or losers.
Between brothers, whether the trial is won or lost, makes no difference.
Truth fears no trial.
He goes safely to trial whose father is a judge.
After a trial one party is naked and the other without a shirt.
A fox should not be of the jury at a goose's trial.
Don't live in a town where there are no doctors.
Not for village, not for town.
If the walls were adamant, gold would take the town.
The misfortune that comes into town does not wear a turban.
The village feeds the town.
The cock goes to town for only four days and returns home a peacock.
The moon moves slowly, but it crosses the town.
He who is being carried does not realize how far the town is.
He who is carried on another's back does not appreciate how far off the town is.
Where'er an ass is crown'd to fame, both town and country bear the shame.
The people make the town.
If everyone swept in front of his house, the whole town would be clean.
If you cannot build a town, build a heart.
When a fowl gets to a new town, it stands on one leg until it knows that it is a town where people stand on their two legs.
The alcohol that is insufficient for a whole town ought not to intoxicate one man.
The man being carried does not realize how far away the town really is.
Better the head of a village than the tail of a town.
The town is new every day.
The goat is not big in a cow town.
You cant be in the town and be in the country too.
The village cock does not crow in town.
The advice of a clever woman can ruin a strong town.
Can't have a family fuss without the whole town knowing about it.
A person's character reaches town before the person does.
Many a thing whispered into one ear is heard over the whole town.
A starved town is soon forced to surrender.
Partinico is a good town, good wine and low costs.
A town takes your money though your pockets be empty.
Don't live in a town where there are no doctors.
Send a fool to close the shutters and he'll close them all over town.
The town that parleys is half surrendered.
Never by-pass a town where a friend lives.
The servant wench that has a mother in town swoons seven times a day.
Another city (town) - another temper.
The dog that has his bitch in town never barks well.
Remember, it is forbidden to live in a town which has no garden or greenery.
Wonder lasts but nine nights in a Town.
Cut duels in every Town.
Wisdom can be found travelling.
If you are travelling towards the East, you will inevitably move away from the West.
A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot; a dog travelling with good men becomes a rational being.
If you are travelling in the blind man's country close one eye.
While travelling, the load settles in place.
Wisdom is the least burdensome travelling pack.
Someone else's legs are no good to you when you're travelling.
Travelling is learning.
Travelling is seeing.
Smart bird gets trapped in its beak.
A trapped cat becomes a lion.
The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap.
You set the trap when the rat has gone.
Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
Everyone is glad to see a knave caught in his own trap.
The fox falls into the trap only once.
Married folk are like rats in a trap - fain to get others in, but fain to be out themselves.
An old rat won't go into the trap.
The old bear falls into the old trap.
I don't want the cheese; I just want out of the trap.
When the webs of the spider join, they can trap a lion.
The clever bird is easily trapped in the leaves at the edges.
Anyone can be trapped.
Words are like the spider's web: a shelter for the clever ones and a trap for the not-so-clever.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free.
An artful bird can be trapped in a rotten cage.
When elephant steps on a trap, no more trap.
The one who went to the in-laws got trapped in a thorn tree.
If you are not an animal you will never find yourself in a trap.
A spider's cobweb isn't only its sleeping spring but also its food trap.
It is difficult to trap an old fox.
Love, should i escape your snares, i doubt that i can be trapped by any other means.
A mouse that removes the palm-nut that turns out to be the bait of a trap, would already have known that the palm-nut does not ripen on the ground.
An old fox understands the trap.
I don't want the cheese, I just want to get out of the trap.
The mouse is caught in the trap.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
Sulks like a perch in the fish trap.
I don't want the cheese; I just want out of the trap.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free.
The mouth brought the wolf into the trap, the tongue the ermine to the snare.
A monkey is not to be caught in a trap.
The smaller the heart, the longer the tongue.
I gave so much advice that hair grew on my tongue.
A sharp tongue will cut off its own head.
The tongue of men is the whip of God.
The tongue speaks, but the head doesn't know.
Teeth will never quarrel with the tongue.
The tongue of co-wives is bitter.
The tongue that belongs to a fake friend is sharper than a knife.
Tongue may muddle up and say the truth.
An ill tongue may do much.
The tongue of the fool is always long.
The only sword that never rests is the tongue of a woman.
Truth speaks even though the tongue were dead.
Whatever is in the heart will come up to the tongue.
The tongue is safe; even among thirty teeth.
Where there is least heart there is most tongue.
Where gold speaks every tongue is silent.
Teach your tongue to say "I don't know” instead of to make up something.
He that has a tongue in his head may find his way anywhere.
The human tongue is more poisonous than a bee's sting.
The teeth and the tongue are close neighbors, and yet they sometimes bite each other.
Having two ears and one tongue, we should listen twice as much as we speak.
A man's ruin lies in his tongue.
The soft tongue is sucked by the lioness.
The body pays for a slip of the foot and gold pays for a slip of the tongue.
The teeth sometimes bite the tongue.
The tongue has no bone yet it crushes.
God speaks a foreign tongue.
A false friend's tongue is sharper than a knife.
The tongue is the worst piece of meat in the world.
A woman's tongue is sharp enough to pierce the toughest flesh.
A pit of the tongue cannot be covered up by the hand.
A tongue has no bone.
The tongue is more to be feared than the sword.
A three inch tongue -- the iron bulwark of politics.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
The tongue of woman is her sword, which never rusts.
A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture.
A teacher is someone who ploughs with his tongue to fill his little bowl with rice.
The tongue is soft but constantly remains; the teeth are hard yet they fall out.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring, a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not.
He must have leave to speak who cannot hold his tongue.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth.
The soul of a fool is always dancing on the tip of his tongue.
never let your tongue hit your neck.
Kind words don't wear out the tongue.
Let him who is well off hold his tongue.
Nothing looks more like a man of sense than a fool who holds his tongue.
Truth makes the tongue smart.
Where the tongue slips, it speaks the truth.
Keep your tongue in your jaw and your tow in your pump.
A quiet tongue shows a wise head.
Do not keep your tongue under your belt.
The tongue has no bones, yet it breaks bones.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue; to the end we should hear and see more than we speak.
The cat bit your tongue.
The tongue goes to the aching tooth.
Can your hands do what your tongue does?
He is not an honest man who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company that the soup is hot.
He who has a tongue, may go to Rome.
Even a fool is thought wise if he keeps silent, and discerning if he holds his tongue.
He who has a bad tongue should have good loins.
Smooth words do not flay the tongue.
Teeth placed before the tongue give good advice.
Long tongue - short hands.
A woman's tongue is a double edged knife.
A womans tongue cracks bones.
Let not your tongue cut your throat.
The foolish has a wagging tongue.
Every kind of animal can be tamed, but not the tongue of man.
He who licks knives will soon cut his tongue.
A honey tongue, a heart of gall.
A still tongue maketh a wise head.
Turn your tongue seven times before speaking.
Better the foot slip than the tongue.
Your tongue will get you to Kiev.
The tongue always returns to the sore tooth.
A woman's tongue is longer than her hair.
What a man suffers is the punishment of his tongue.
Keep the tongue in your mouth a prisoner.
A fool, if he holds his tongue, passes for wise.
A long tongue betokens a short hand.
If you want to be revenged, hold your tongue.
His tongue says little, but powerful is his right arm.
The tongue slow and the eyes quick.
Wounds from the knife are healed, but not those from the tongue.
Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf.
He is not honest who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company the soup is hot.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
Don't leave for tomorrow what you can do today.
Too much hurry, and get there tomorrow; take time, get there today.
Today can't catch tomorrow.
Think today and speak tomorrow.
He, who does not seize opportunity today, will be unable to seize tomorrow's opportunity.
Do it today! tomorrow it might be forbidden.
The day before yesterday and yesterday are not the same as today.
The costly news of today will be free tomorrow.
Money is like a guest: it comes today, leaves tomorrow.
Today butterflies, tomorrow wasps.
Who dies today is safe from tomorrow's sin.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
If the fight is tomorrow, why then clench your fist today?
If the fight is tomorrow, then why should you clench your fist today?
For tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it today.
Our bread today is better than a hundred in the air.
Here today, gone tomorrow.
Today is the scholar of yesterday.
Today it may be a fire, tomorrow it will be ashes.
He who falls today. may rise tomorrow.
Never put off tomorrow what you can do today.
Give me today and you may keep tomorrow.
Live today, forget the past.
Better one today, than two tomorrow.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Don't postpone until tomorrow, what you can do today.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Fortune is a woman; if you neglect her today do not expect to regain her tomorrow.
Plan your life as though you were going to live forever, but live today as if you were going to die tomorrow.
Fear does not empty tomorrow of its sadness; it empties today of its power.
Don't do today what you can put off until tomorrow.
If you want to see what your body will look like tomorrow, look at your thoughts today.
Today I am a warrior.
Today is a good day to die.
Take a close look then at today.
What you can do today do not leave off for tomorrow.
Live today for tomorrow it will all be history.
Today is today who says tommorrow is a liar.
We must go back and reclaim our past so we can move forward; so we understand why and how we came to be who we are today.
Yesterday, today and tomorrow -- these are the three days of man.
The rich man plans for tomorrow, the poor man for today.
Jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but never jam today.
All the past died yesterday; the future is born today.
An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow.
If you're very unkind today don't expect favours tomorrow.
If you want a better tomorrow do good today.
Give me a fish and I will eat today, teach me to fish and I will eat for a lifetime.
An egg today is worth a hen tomorrow.
Be gay today, for tomorrow you may die.
Fret today, regret tomorrow.
Today is the first day of the rest of your life.
Never do today what you can put off till tomorrow.
It may be a fire today, but tomorrow it will be only ashes.
A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.
When the devil reigns today God will be master tomorrow.
When God says today, the devil says tomorrow.
What Manchester says today, the rest of England says tomorrow.
One today is better than ten tomorrows.
He who cries today that he has no bread will cry again tomorrow because he isn't hungry.
If not today -- when?
Take a close look then at today.
A good well-lived today makes every yesterday a dream of a good future, and every morning is a vision of hope.
If not today - when?
Do not put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
Here today and gone tomorrow.
I today, you tomorrow.
Work today, for you know not how much you may be hindered tomorrow.
Stuff today and starve tomorrow.
Today a man, tomorrow none.
Don't leave for tomorrow what you can do today.
It is the same moon that wanes today that will be the full moon tomorrow.
Today me, tomorrow you.
When the sky looks like a hot oven, if no rain today, rain tomorrow.
Me today, you tomorrow.
Better an egg today than the chicken tomorrow.
When you see a sheep's wool sky you know, if it doesn't rain today, it will rain in the morning.
Today to me, tomorrow to you, we're all in it together.
I'll take care of today, let God take care of tomorrow.
An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow.
Today is yesterday's pupil.
Never put off today what you can put off tomorrow.
Things of today, accomplished today.
For me today, for you tomorrow.
Today is the first day of the rest of your life.
All the flowers of all the tomorrows are in the seeds of today and yesterday.
By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree.
By trying repeatedly, the monkey learns how to jump from the tree.
In trying to straighten the horns you kill the ox.
It's no good trying to bite your navel.
When a lion runs and looks back, its not that he is afraid, rather he is trying to see the distance he has covered.
Like someone trying to capture water in his fist.
Anyone who lives will know trying times.
Keeping a woman to her word is like trying to hold an eel by its tail.
By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree.
Like trying to put a comb upon the nun's head.
You're wasting your time trying to interest the old in new endeavors.
If you can't do the deed, don't block another from trying.
While trying to pull down something from the antique she lost what she had under her armpit.
A person is trying to benefit from being close to opposing parties.
To control the mind is like trying to control a drunken monkey that has been bitten by a scorpion.
A dripping june sets all in tune.
The older the fiddle the sweeter the tune.
There are many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
A borrowed fiddle does not finish a tune.
Dance to the tune that is played.
Calm weather in June, sets the corn in tune.
There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
He that lives in hope dances to an ill tune.
There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
De tune you playing no de one I dancing.
When the furze is in bloom, my love's in tune.
There is no tune without a penny.
The tune you are playing is not the one I am dancing to.
People always sing the tune that pleases their benefactor.
A turtle can only get on it by sticking its neck out.
The turtle does not suffer when running.
A turtle never abandons its carriage.
The turtle underestimates the value of fast feet.
The turtle lays thousands of eggs without anyone knowing, but when the hen lays an egg, the whole country is informed.
When you see a turtle on top of a fence post, you know he had some help.
The turtle does not suffer when running.
A turtle never abandons its carriage.
Slower than a turtle.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove.
A turtle makes progress when it sticks its neck out.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
The early wanderer found a turtle.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
Twa Daughters, and a back-door, are three stark thieves.
Twa wits is better nor ane.
All things hes an end, a Pudding hes twa.
He that hes twa huirds, is able to get the third.
Twa words maun gang to that bargain.
Make not twa mewes of ane daughter.
Twa wits are better than ane.
Twa fools in a house are a couple o'er mony.
His eggs hae a' twa yolks.
A bird in the hand is worth twa in the bush.
If marriages are made in heaven, you twa hae few friends there.
If you do not travel, you will marry your own sister.
Let the man who has suffered ask it -- not the man who has travelled.
Travel broadens the mind.
You will reach your destination even though you travel slowly.
If you want to travel fast use the old roads.
He who has travelled alone can tell what he likes.
With great learning, a horse, and money, you may travel the world.
Fear doesn't travel by donkey.
The hare and the elephant don't travel well together.
A roan horse and a black can travel equally far in a day's journey.
Don't travel under another's lucky star.
If you carry treasure, don't travel at night.
A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home.
The liar will travel the world over, but chooses not to go back home.
While horse is strong travel to see places.
When the elderly ones in a house travel, the younger ones quickly grow in experience.
If you travel for a day, take bread for a week.
You travel on until you return home; you live on until you return to earth.
A travelled child knows better than the old man who sits at home.
The person who has not travelled thinks his or her mother is the best cook.
I travel the river of blood.
It is better to travel alone than with a bad companion.
Some roads aren't meant to be travelled alone.
It is impossible to add much weight with a single morsel; it is hard to travel afar with a single step.
The wise man and the tortoise travel but never leave their home.
Travel and you will see them, sit and they will come to you.
To travel is to see, to return is to talk.
A lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is still putting on its shoes.
Better to travel hopefully than to arrive.
Much travel is needed to ripen a man's rawness.
In the desert of life the wise travel by caravan, while the fool prefers to travel alone.
Travel the highway, though it be roundabout – where shortcuts are dangerous.
Children travel from the heart to the heart.
A travelled man hath leave to lye.
If the owner of the goat is not afraid to travel by night, the owner of a hyena certainly will not be.
Who has travelled a lot has seen a lot.
In fair weather, in calm waters and in peaceful travel, even a coachman knows how to sail.
He who would travel through the land, must go with open purse in hand.
With your hat in your hand you can travel the entire country.
Travel east or travel west, a man's own house is still the best.
He who wants to travel far takes care of his beast.
He who has a trade may travel through the world.
It is better to travel hopefully than to arrive.
Two great talkers will not travel far together.
To be sure that your friend is a friend, you must go with him on a journey, travel with him day and night, go with him near and far.
Travel broadens the mind.
It is better to travel alone than with a bad companion.
In the desert of life the wise person travels with a group, while the fool prefers to travel alone.
A lie can travel faster than truth.
In the desert of life the wise travel by caravan, while the fool.
It's a great advantage to love someone in your neighborhood: you see each other often and you don't have to travel.
Choose your fellow traveller before you start on your journey.
Beautiful day, a gift for the traveller.
A traveller is poor, even though he being a ruler.
The hard road turns the traveller into the same dust that he has to swallow.
A talkative person is a traveller when he is tired, he keeps quiet.
It is the traveller who carries the news.
The heaviest baggage for a traveller is an empty purse.
A traveller may lie with authority.
Let the traveller fainting on his journey take rest under a tree which contains both fruit and shade.
Every story has two sides and every song has twelve versions.
The dog's tail, even if buried for twelve years, will remain as crooked as ever.
Twelve highlanders and a bagpipe make a rebellion.
Halfway is twelve miles when you have fourteen miles to go.
Truth is twelve years old.
It is not spring until you can plant your foot upon twelve daisies.
It is easy to push a cart drawn by twelve oxen.
Devils have more than twelve apostles.
I don't count them to you, wife, but a hog makes twelve puddings.
A child and a fool imagine twenty shillings and twenty years can never be spent.
Twenty years a child; twenty years running wild; twenty years a mature man -- and after that, praying.
He that at twenty is not, at thirty knows not, and at forty has not, will never be, nor ever know, nor ever have.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
He that chastens one chastens twenty.
He that is not gallant at twenty, strong at thirty, rich at forty, or experienced at fifty, will never be gallant, strong, rich, or prudent.
What is an expert? Someone who is twenty miles from home.
A volunteer is worth twenty pressed men.
One acre of performance, is worth twenty of the land of promise.
A volunteer is worth twenty pressed men.
Better give a penny than lend twenty.
Among twenty four fools not ane wise man.
From twenty to thirty, neither pulling nor pushing, from thirty on up a woman is of no further use.
It's a good marriage when he's twenty eight and she's eighteen.
One catches more flies with a spoonful of honey than with twenty casks of vinegar.
He who at twenty understands nothing, at thirty knows nothing, and at forty has nothing, will lead a wretched old age.
Since you have scolding me, I have counted a hundred and twenty holes in that nutmeg grater.
In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty, In time of adversity, not one amongst twenty.
A child and a fool imagine twenty shillings and twenty years can never be spent.
The ideal is a four year old dog, an eight year old horse, an eighteen year old woman and a twenty eight year old man.
There was already twenty in the family, so my grandmother had a baby.
Sadness is a valuable treasure -- only discovered in people you love.
Who finds a faithful friend, finds a treasure.
The earth is not ours, it is a treasure we hold in trust for future generations.
The person who God shows a treasure to must dig it out himself.
When the treasure chest is open, even the just man sins.
If you carry treasure, don't travel at night.
A nation's treasure is in its scholars.
Content is an everlasting treasure.
Learning is a treasure no thief can touch.
Chiaramonte, a mountain of gold, every woman is a treasure.
Peace and harmony is great treasure.
A lucky man can stumble upon a treasure while an unlucky one can't even find a mushroom.
Good customers are as rare as latinum – treasure them.
Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends.
A good friend is a treasure.
One's skills are his inexhaustible treasure keeping him from hunger wherever he goes.
Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere.
Learning is a treasure which accompanies its owner everywhere.
Learning is treasure no thief can touch.
Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends.
Good weight and measure, are heaven's treasure.
One man's trash is another man's treasure.
An old man in the house is a burden, but an old woman is a treasure.
The supreme treasure is knowledge, the middle treasure is children, and the lowest treasure is material wealth.
Quietness is a great treasure.
Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Measure is treasure.
A bequest, a found treasure, and parsimony make a man wealthy.
An honest wife is a treasure that lasts, a sad wife is worse than the plague.
A trusted friend is a priceless treasure.
A nation's treasure is its scholars.
An old man in the house is a burden, but an old woman is a treasure.
Good weight and measure, are heaven's treasure.
Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it.
Without treasure, without friends.
I am not a critic; to me criticism is so often nothing more than the eye garrulously denouncing the shape of the peephole that gives access to hidden treasure.
Measure, is Treasure.
Contentment is an inexhaustible treasure.
Measure is treasure.
The hidden things of wisdom and a treasure that is not seen, what profit is in them both?
Every man to his trade.
There are tricks in every trade.
Done in by his own trade like a water merchant in the rain.
Advertising is the mother of trade.
Before you begin to trade in blame look in the mirror.
The barber learns his trade on the orphan's chin.
If I were to trade in winding sheets, no one would die.
A huckster who cannot pass off mouse-turd for pepper, has not learned his trade.
Millers, tailors, and weavers are not hanged, or the trade would soon be extinct.
On poor people's beards the young barber learns his trade.
A trade not properly learned is an enemy.
The man of your own trade is your enemy.
Another man's trade costs money.
Every man has a good wife and a bad trade.
Every one finds fault with his own trade.
Work earns a living but trade makes you rich.
In a trade someone always loses.
The trade of thick-headed Michael: eating, drinking, and idling.
Set thy expense according to thy trade.
Set your expense according to your trade.
A hangman is a good trade, he doth his work by daylight.
He that has no good trade, it is to his loss.
He who does not teach his son a trade teaches him to steal.
Every man should practise only his trade.
The knowledge of a trade is worth a handful of gold.
Eat and drink with your friends but do not trade with them.
Trade follows the flag.
Trade knows neither friends or kindred.
He who cannot speak well of his trade does not understand it.
Who has a trade may go anywhere.
Two of a trade can never agree.
A losing trade, I assure you, sir; literature is a drug. (George Borrow)
Shoemaker, stick to your trade.
An handful of trade is an handful of gold.
Eat and drink with your friends but do not trade with them.
Anger is the mother of treachery.
The act of treachery is liked, but not he that does it.
Treachery darkens the chain of friendship, but truth makes it brighter than ever.
Trust makes way for treachery.
Treachery and slander are long lived.
Deceit and treachery make no man rich.
Treachery lurks in honeyed words.
Treachery returns.
Old age and treachery will overcome youth and skill.
Treachery will eventually betray itself; though wary enough at first.
Treachery will come home to the traitor.
Treat your superior as a father, your equal as a brother, and your inferior as a son.
Treat the lesser as you would have the greater treat you.
Do not treat your loved one like a swinging door: you are fond of it but you push it back and forth.
Treat the days well and they will treat you well.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days - then on the third day give him a hoe.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
When you open a door, don't forget to close it. Treat your mouth accordingly.
Treat thoughts as guests and wishes as children.
Treat the earth well. It was not given to you by your parents. It is loaned to you by your children.
One can easily judge the character of a person by the way they treat people who can do nothing for them.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days; on the third day, give him a hoe.
A woman is like a bee treat her well and she will make honey, treat her badly and she will go wild.
Treat them mean, keep them keen.
There's always room for a tasty treat.
Treat me like a rabbi; watch me like a thief.
Treat the small in the way you would want to be treated by the big.
Treat everything of this world as mere vanity.
Treat your friends as if hereafter they will become your enemies, and your enemies as if they will become your friends.
Treat yourself and each other with respect.
Treat the earth well: it was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children.
A younger brother should honour an older brother. He should treat him with human dignity.
For a taste treat, try tuna roe and thorny cardoons.
How can the foal amble if the horse and mare trot?
An ass's trot does not last long.
He who knows the road can ride full trot.
No need to say "trot” to a good horse.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he don't trot, but gallops.
Need makes the old wife trot.
A donkey cannot trot for long.
A goaded ass must trot.
Need makes the old wife trot.
Trot mother, trot father, how should the foal amble?
Need makes the old woman trot.
When you drink milk under the palm tree, people will say that it is palm wine.
Every tree has its worm to eat it.
The pear does not fall far from the tree.
The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree to the ground said he would praise himself if no one else did.
Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby.
The elephant that is stuck in the mud will tear down the tree with it.
You don't have to cut a tree down to get at the fruit.
The nuts from a palm tree don't fall without dragging a few leaves with it.
Around a flowering tree, there are many insects.
Even the mightest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest.
Old men sit in the shade because they planted a tree many years before.
Though the palm tree in the jungle is big, who knows how big its yield will be?
Only when the tree is big and strong can you tether a cow to it.
When a dead tree falls, the woodpeckers profit from his death.
Not all the flowers of a tree produce fruit.
On a dead tree there are no monkeys.
No one can uproot the tree which God has planted.
Anyone who plants a tree before they die has not lived in vain.
Patience is a tree whose root is bitter, but its fruit is very sweet.
Tree would bend when it bears fruit.
Every tree casts shadow on its own bottom.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
The only trick the incapable has, are his tears.
Trick against trick.
Every shop has its trick.
When in doubt, win the trick.
A red beard and a black head, catch him with a good trick and take him dead.
The meat from the castrated, from wherever you take it you trick yourself.
A trick is not an arrow.
One trick is met by another.
A trick is not an arrow.
The trick the father has, the son has.
A trick is clever only once.
Not turning his hand around for it.
It is a long lane that has no turning.
You'll never plough a field by turning it over in your mind.
It is a long road that has no turning.
There's no turning a windmill with a pair of bellows.
Turning the water to his own mill.
Once the mushroom has sprouted from the earth, there is no turning back.
In an instant illumination can be achieved, it is as easy as turning on a light, the problem is finding the switch in the dark.
It is a long lane that has no turning.
He is turning his coat according to the wind.
It's a long lane that has no turning.
To hit a dog with a meat-bun, so it leaves never turning around.
The morning goes thinking, the day turning head.
Once the mushroom has sprouted from the earth, there is no turning back.
When you return from a trip, bring back something for your family - even if it is only a stone.
Even the stone you trip on is part of your destiny.
He who leaves and then returns, had a good trip.
When you come back from a trip bring something for the family -- even if it is only a stone.
Small ills are the fountains of most of our groans. Men trip not on mountains, they stumble on stones.
Each trip gives you its own uniqueness.
A horse can trip.
In february, don't postpone a trip.
For a poor man, to prepare for a trip means belt himself.
When you come back from a trip bring something for the family.
Men trip not on mountains, they trip on molehills.
Turn your face to the sun and the shadows fall behind you.
The buzzing of the flies does not turn them into bees.
Beware of the man to whom you have done a good turn.
An empty mill will turn without the wind.
One good turn deserves another.
We can only speak the truth when we turn off the light.
'tis his turn to-day, it will be mine to-morrow.
Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her brain.
Law is like a shaft of a cart, it points wherever you turn it to.
Clergymen's sons always turn out badly.
Does sheep manure turn to caramel?
He is a good storyteller who can turn a man's ears into eyes.
Dance in the sun, but turn your back to the clouds.
Not even the lord of light can turn back time, or undo what has been done.
If you turn into a dog, be sure to choose a rich family.
The witch is going! the witch is going! but if you are not a witch you don't turn around to look.
Corner a dog in a dead-end street and it will turn and bite.
You cannot turn blood into water.
He that does you a very ill turn will never forgive you.
It is better to turn back than go astray.
What would shame him would turn back a funeral.
The hen's eyes turn to where she has her eggs.
Blood will not turn water.
Small tree trunks can make the cart turn over.
The lion won't turn on a barking puppy.
When a sickle is drawn, it in turn draws the tree to which it is hooked.
If men were now to turn their hostility towards the cat, it would not be long before the domestic cat becomes a wild animal.
Playing with fire will eventually turn bitter.
One good turn deserves another.
Turn your tongue seven times before speaking.
Pray for revenge, and God will turn a deaf ear.
God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn.
Turn of phrase.
Turn it inside and out.
"if you have no money, turn placeman!” as the court fool said to his sovereign.
There's no ill that doesn't turn out for the better.
A bad habit that lasts more than a year may turn into a custom.
Snakes turn milk into poison.
All criminals turn preachers under the gallows.
Let not turn fun to mischief.
An infidel who does you good turn is not like a Muslim who does not.
If you become a dog, turn into the dog of a wealthy family.
Turn iron (or stone) into gold by the touch.
A woman is like a banana; one alone can turn the whole bunch rotten.
No matter how far you have walked in the wrong direction certainly you have to turn back and take the right direction.
Never lose heart because whatever is hot must in the end turn cold.
Benefits turn poison in bad minds.
Ladies in slacks should not turn their backs.
Get what you can, and what you get, hold; it's the stone that will turn all your lead into gold.
Even a worm will turn.
Every man will have his own turn served.
Blood can never turn into water.
O! my brother Flip the pot on its mouth, the daughters turn into their mums.
Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee.
It is an ill turn that does no good to any one.
It is not all who turn their backs that flee.
Love can turn a cottage into a golden palace.
Summer sown corn and women's advice turn out once in every seven years.
The worst behaved students turn out to be the most pious preachers.
Even a worm will turn.
You didn't turn up when sense was being distributed.
As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, the truest lover may turn into the worst enemy.
God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn.
The wolf told the dog: It does not matter that I run and you follow me, what matters is that when I turn around you will be next to me.
Marriages are not as they are made, but as they turn out.
Water past will not turn the mill.
One never loses by doing a good turn.
Leave a jest when it pleases lest it turn to earnest.
Shame shall fall them that shame thinks, to do themselves a good turn.
A turn well done is soon done.
He that does you an ill turn will ne'er forgie you.
He that does his turn in time, sits half idle.
An ill turn is soon done.
When it is the turn of a man to become the head of a village, he does not need to diviner to tell him that he is destined to rule.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over chitterlings is ready for marriage.
Pigs and children will turn out the way you teach them.
If you close the door, the devil will turn his back on you.
The man that serves is not prevented from being served in turn.
Golden dishes will never turn black.
One good turn deserves another.
Nothing is more easily blotted out than a good turn.
Better to turn back than to lose your way.
The one who enters the Turkish bath must never turn his back on a Greek.
No matter how far down a wrong road you are, turn back.
God defend you from the devil, the eye of a harlot, and the turn of a die.
Jest so that it may not turn to earnest.
We conquer and are conquered in our turn.
It is better to turn back than to persevere in an evil course.
A trouble shared is a trouble halved.
He that has a white horse and a fair wife need never want for trouble.
Don't wake up trouble while it sleeps quietly.
He who boasts of his ancestry unduly will bring plenty of trouble upon himself.
When in charge, ponder. When in trouble, delegate. When in doubt, mumble.
A chicken that hatches a crocodile's eggs is looking for trouble.
Trouble rides a fast horse.
Even a fish wouldn't get into trouble if it kept its mouth shut.
Beautiful woman, beautiful trouble.
He that will have no trouble in this world must not be born in it.
A bad dancer always has trouble with his balls.
Trouble never comes alone.
You get to really know your friend when trouble comes.
Once resolved, the trouble is over.
A flea can trouble a lion more than the lion can harm a flea.
I will charge thee nothing but the promise that thee will help the next man thee finds in trouble.
When a man is in trouble he smokes.
The pumpkin gives birth and the fence has the trouble.
A thing that is firmly fixed cannot be dislodged except with much trouble.
A fox is in trouble because of his own pelt.
If you understand the beginning well, the end will not trouble you.
Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try, try again.
If you are going to drown, do not try it in shallow water.
A cow that has no tail should not try to chase away flies.
If you try to cleanse others - like soap, you will waste away in the process!
I tried to draw the eyebrow, but I ended up poking the eye.
Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.
I tried to do charity, I burned.
Whoever does not try, does not learn.
A sheet of paper is lighter if two of you don't try to carry it.
No matter how hard you try, a bull will never give milk.
You can even be a God, if you try.
If you trust before you try, you will repent before you die.
If you try to cleanse others - just like soap, you will waste away in the process.
Don't try to make someone hate the person he loves, for he will still go on loving, but he will hate you.
To try and fail is not laziness.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
Don't try to run before you can walk.
Do not try to fight a lion if you are not one yourself.
Never be content with your lot. Try for a lot more.
Try the ice before you venture on it.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
If you have to swallow a frog, try not to think about it. If you have to swallow two frogs, don't swallow the smaller one first.
he tried to pluck under her/his eyebrow, but blinded the eye.
Try it first and then say it's saltless.
If you know what a dollar is worth, try to borrow it.
The beast that goes well never wants a rider to try its paces.
Never seek the wind in the field. It is useless to try and find what is gone.
Don't try to sell pumpkins to a gardener.
One can only try to get what one can from the head of an elephant, no one ever carries it home.
Noh care how boar hog try fi hide under sheep wool, ‘im grunt always betray ‘im.
When you try to walk the straight and narrow you get pebbles in your shoes.
To try and fail is not laziness.
Try to deserve the reputation you enjoy.
Try this bracelet: if it fits you wear it; but if it hurts you, throw it away no matter how shiny.
One who says ‘it was too much for me' does not try.
One should try to get enormously benefited by a small effort.
It's fair that he who tried to steal yours, loses his.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
When you try to stay on the surface of the water, you sink; but when you try to sink, you float.
Don't try to buy fish in the dry towns.
A rabbithorn cannot be a war-horse and will only become a laughingstock if he should try.
Don't try to walk before you can crawl.
Don't try to cover the stone with a quilt.
One cannot manage too many affairs; like pumpkins in water, one pops up while you try to hold down the other.
If you share a man's wealth, try to lessen his misfortune.
You cannot hook trout? Try digging clams.
Never try to catch two frogs with one hand.
Try out your shoes on your feet - gauge people against their misfortune.
A chief may have more wives than he can remember but you dare not try to share his wives with him.
A cow without a tail should not try to chase away flies.
If it is not broken don't try to fix it.
When vultures surround you, try not to die.
Don't ever try to give a spear to a former mad man.
If you think education is expensive try ignorance.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
Foolhardiness made the rat try to jump over the fireplace.
To try and to fail is not laziness.
Try your friend before you trust him.
Cast the beam out of your own eye before you try to cast the mote from the eyes of your neighbour.
If you want to know the value of money, try borrowing some.
Never try to prove what nobody doubts.
You never know what you can do until you try.
If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die.
First try and then trust.
If you would know the value of a ducat, try to borrow one.
It makes no sense to try to forge the iron whilst it is still cold.
War is pleasant to those who have not tried it.
You have to take it as it happens, but you should try to make it happen the way you want to take it.
One idiot throws a stone in the well, and it takes a hundred wise men to (try to) get it out.
An elephant has enormous dung -- don't try to defecate like an elephant. Don't try to wipe someone else's ass if yours is unwiped.
Don't try to cover the whole sky with the palm of your hand.
Who sits on your shoulders will try to climb on your head.
It's better to try than to hope.
Do you want to experience real thirst? Then try eating bitter cardoons and roasted fava beans.
If you have nothing to lose, you can try anything.
You never know what you can do till you try.
Don't try to fly before you have wings.
The elbow is near, but try and bite it.
Having given your word, be strong; not having done it, try not to promise.
If they say there is a wedding in the sky, women would try to put up a ladder.
If you want to know what a ducat is worth, try to borrow one.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. Never say die.
Try to strike a happy medium.
Of your wife and your tried friend believe nothing but what you know for certain.
Peralvillo justice: hang a man first and try him afterwards.
If you can't hold on to the horse's mane then don't try to hang on to its tail.
He who has tried it, is afraid of it.
To tell the dog to catch, and the rabbit to run.
A nibbling rabbit can also die of overfeeding.
A rabbit aims for the moon.
Underneath every bush you'll find a mud rabbit ready to bolt.
If the rabbit is your enemy, admit that he can sprint fast.
The rabbit that dances on the broken branch of a high tree must look down to see how many mouths are opened wide beneath.
If the dog hadn't stopped to rest, he'd have caught the rabbit.
It is better to be a live rabbit than a tiger.
The rabbit gets fat on what the hare misses.
A rabbit is over excited.
When a fox walks lame, the old rabbit jumps.
A sly rabbit will have three openings to its den.
A rabbit is never caught twice in the same place.
A Tyrone woman will never buy a rabbit without a head for fear it's a cat.
Rat no dey born rabbit.
You never know how a cow catches a rabbit.
When the rabbit has escaped, comes advice.
Michael is quits; he lost a ducat and gained a rabbit.
The rabbit has different eyes than the owl's.
Waiting for a rabbit to hit upon a tree and be killed in order to catch it.
The drum sounds when the hawk appears wit ha rabbit.
The morning of the race is not the morning to feed your horse.
He is of the race of Johnny Van Cleeve; who would always much rather have than give.
Klingons are a proud race, and we intend to go on being proud.
Slow but sure wins the race.
Slow and steady wins the race.
The best horse doesn't always win the race.
The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong.
A race horse gives you an advantage and wins the prize.
If only one race has to be chosen, why the Jews?
An ass is beautiful in the eyes of an ass; a sow in those of a sow; and every race is attractive to itself.
The race is not always to the swift.
If only one race has to be chosen, why the Jews?
Slow and steady wins the race.
In a long race the good horse prevails.
Loving one that does not love you, is a fruitless race.
Raise your sail one foot and you get ten feet of wind.
It takes a village to raise a child.
Raise no more devils than you can lay.
Raise what you've given birth to.
Softly, don't raise a dust.
A woman can raise you to heaven and can dump you in hell.
Don't raise your club so high; it will only fall on your head.
Mothers raise their daughters and let their sons grow up.
It takes a whole village to raise a child.
It takes a village to raise a child.
A father and mother can raise ten children.
A spark may raise An awful blaze.
Don't raise your stick and the dog won't bark at you.
Raise ravens and they will peck our your eye.
It is easier to raise the Devil than to lay him.
Being but a woman, raise not the sword.
Carthage didn't raise up in only one day.
Meaning: Nature can help and harm you. The people (the water) can raise someone (a boat) to power, but can also take that power away (sinking the boat).
Raise your head proudly high.
It is a greater gift to give than to receive.
Receive a plum, return a peach.
If you receive a gift don't measure it.
Do good if you expect to receive it.
When others have received, you may still receive, because God is always present.
To give in order to receive is not to give, but to beg.
Hands that give also receive.
To receive a favor is to sell one's liberty.
He who is first to receive something forgets when his friend will receive their share.
Ask and you shall receive.
All receive advice. Only the wise profit from it.
Receive and rejoice, antonio, it's your celebration; always receive and never restrain.
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their honey.
If at home you receive no visitors, then abroad you will have no host.
If you cry and receive someone to help you cry more then you cry more.
Who pleasure gives shall joy receive.
Many look with one eye at what they give, but with seven at what they receive.
Good people, like clouds, receive only to give away.
A wise man will not receive rebuke.
Better to give than to receive.
He who is too proud to ask is too good to receive.
Demand a kiss from a fat woman, and be ready to receive a sweet taste.
Give assistance, and receive thanks lighter than a feather: injure a man, and his wrath will be like lead.
Ever receive a present with approbation.
That which I receive, that I return.
If you give evil, you will receive evil. What negativity you send out will return to you.
Give, and ye shall receive.
The lion who lives a life of compassion will receive it.
If you receive pay, you cannot sit idle and if you sit idle, you cannot receive pay.
Masters who sacrifice for servants will receive the gift of loyalty.
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their – honey.
We receive nothing with so much reluctance as instruction.
If you spit in the face of a coward he'll tell you that it's raining.
Don't be so much in love that you can't tell when it's raining.
When it's raining and the sun shines -- then a Turk is born.
If you own two houses, it's raining in one of them.
On Saint Candelora day, if it's snowing or raining, there'll be another forty days of winter.
It's raining pipestems.
Though the sky belongs to the bird it can't fly when it's raining.
Where the young know, is where they believe it's raining.
Raining cats and dogs.
Do not pray when it is raining if you do not pray when the sun is shining.
It's raining cats and dogs.
The rainbow is a sign from Him who is in all things.
Remember, after the storm there will be a rainbow.
A curious woman is capable of turning around the rainbow just to see what is on the other side.
The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes didn't have tears.
There's a pot gold at the end of the rainbow.
The morning rainbow reaches the fountains; the evening rainbow fills the sails.
An evening rainbow means good weather in the morning, a rainbow in the morning fills wells and fountains.
The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes had no tears.
The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes had no tears.
Many an honest heart beats under a ragged coat.
A ragged colt may make a handsome horse.
A ragged coat finds little credit.
A ragged sack holds no grain, a poor man is not taken into counsel.
Many a good face is under a ragged hat.
Ragged colts make fine horses.
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
Ragged colts make the handsomest stallions.
The ragged says to the naked: why don't you get dressed?
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
Often has a tattered colt grown to be a splendid horse. A ragged colt may make a good horse.
The horse with the most scars is the one that highest kicks his rear.
Do not rear a bird of a bad breed.
He who bends over too far shows his rear end.
As porridge benefits those who heat and eat it, so does a child benefit those that rear it.
It is better to be the head of a chicken than the rear of an ox.
Spurs that are too sharp make even the mule rear.
Buy your greyhound, don't rear him.
How did you rear so many children? By being fondest of the little ones.
Fear the goat from the front, the horse from the rear, and a man from all sides.
But mortal bliss will never come sincere Pleasure may lead, but grief blow brings up the rear.
He ran out from under a leaking roof and sat in the rain.
He has done like the Perugian who, when his head was broken, ran home for his helmet.
It is better if you could say "Here he ran away” than "Here he was killed.”.
Better they should say, "There he ran away,” than "There he died.”.
The ox that ran away cannot be caught.
He was burned, so he ran into the bamboo grove, but the grove caught fire.
The scythe ran into a stone.
He ran away from the rain and was caught in a hailstorm.
It is better if they say, "He ran away here" than "He died here."
My blood ran cold.
It is better to say "here he ran" than "here he died".
Don't spill blood until the raven has flown over.
The raven sees its chickens as falcons.
Foster a raven and it will peck out your eyes.
The raven chides blackness.
Bring up a raven, and he will peck out your eyes.
To the raven her own chick is white.
He that takes the raven for his guide will light on carrion.
Thou art a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
Give a piece to the raven and he'll come again.
If bad be the raven, his company is no better.
Even though it is black, the raven loves its young.
Bring up a raven and he will peck out your eyes.
Feed the raven and he'll peck out your eyes.
Black like the soul of the raven.
After three days without reading, talk becomes flavorless.
Reading scripture in front of a donkey.
Don't sign a paper without reading it, or drink water without seeing it.
Drink nothing with out seeing it; sign nothing without reading it.
Of runes they spoke, and the reading of runes was little withheld from their lips.
A day of reading is a day of gain; a day without reading is ten days of loss.
Reading makes a full man, meditation a profound man, discourse a clear man.
Drink nothing without seeing it, sign nothing without reading it.
When reading, don't let a single word escape your attention; one word may be worth a thousand pieces of gold.
He who in under cover when it rains is a great fool if he stirs.
When it rains, collect the water.
Collect the water while it rains.
If I peddle salt, it rains; if I peddle flour, the wind blows.
The heaviest rains fall on the house that leaks most.
Prepare the umbrella before it rains.
It never rains but it pours.
When it rains porridge the beggar has no spoon.
I too can lead the geese to water when it rains.
When it rains and the sun comes out, foxes make love.
Rains always follow the forest.
The lehua blossom unfolds when the rains tread on it.
Monreale, a city without comfort, either it rains, or the wind blows, or bells ring for the dead.
When it rains in the morning, take the plow and start sowing; when it rains between Vespers and nightfall, put on your boots.
After great droughts come great rains.
If the weather is fine, put on you cloak; if it rains, do as you please.
Blessed are the dead that the rain rains on.
You are like dew even before it rains.
It never rains but it pours.
It never rains on your neighbors without you getting your feet wet.
A hyena is used to persistent rains.
Where rain has ever been trapped before when it rains again it will get trapped once again.
Blessed are the dead that the rain rains on.
April rains for men; May, for beasts.
Who takes cover under the branch, collects what rains and collects what falls.
Timely rain cheers my soul; water and sun during seeding, inspires hope; the rains of April and May are late at night; then the good mornings, will be the wealth of the houses.
June rains consume the world.
If it rains on the pastor it drops on the vicar.
When it rains in August, it rains honey and wine.
When God pleases, it rains with every wind.
It rains sorrow on him who is already wet.
Now it rains, and again the sun shines forth brightly in the heavens.
Any home not built for hot days or rains is not a home.
When the sun shines and it rains the devil is whipping his wife.
Where it rains it shows, where it snows it whitens.
No matter how powerful a man, he cannot make the rains fall on his farm alone.
When it rains, it pours.
When God pleases, it rains with every wind.
When it rains, it pours.
A great river does not refuse any small streams.
It is better to refuse than to accept and not to go.
If you refuse to be made straight when you are green, you will not be made straight when you are dry.
Fools refuse favors.
To be slow in giving ant to refuse, are alike.
Don't refuse a wing to the one who gave you the chicken.
Do not refuse the body what it asks for.
The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free.
I refuse to fight does not mean I am a coward.
None are so blind as those who refuse to see.
The money you refuse will never do you good.
Never refuse a good offer.
Many desire the tree who pretend to refuse the fruit.
He who is sick will not refuse medicine.
To give tardily is to refuse.
Never refuse a good offer.
Let no man refuse to endure that which is common to the lot of all.
If you refuse the advice of an elder, you will walk until sunset.
He who hunts two rats, catches none.
Flatters, like rats, tickle and then bite.
Let rats fight with each other.
Let rats shoot arrows at each other.
Two rats cannot share the same hole.
Rats make havoc in the kitchen when the cat's a kitten.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Monks, mice, rats, vermin, seldom sunder without harming.
After eating nine hundred rats, the cat is now going on a pilgrimage.
Married folk are like rats in a trap - fain to get others in, but fain to be out themselves.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Who takes a hut, also takes the rats and cockroaches.
A hobbling cat is better than a fast horse when rats swarm the palace.
He who does not feed his cat will feed rats.
A lame cat is better than a swift horse when rats infest the palace.
When a cat wants to eat its own kitten it accuses them of smelling like rats.
Who takes a hut, also takes the rats and cockroaches.
Rats and conquerors must expect no mercy in misfortune.
When the cat's away the rats dance.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Rats plotting: problems with flour.
Wise rats run from a falling house.
When the cat's away the rats will play.
Rats do not play tricks with kittens.
He does not a little who burns his house: he frightens the rats, and warms himself.
When men discuss the things which are to be, the rats laugh in the rafters.
Rats know the way of rats.
When cats are hairdressers, rats will always go around with uncombed hair.
If you have ground nuts in your room expect rats.
Many rats cannot all at once dig a hole for their home.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
When the cat's away, the rats dance.
Don't stay on the dew until the sun reaches its highest.
What reaches the mother's heart will only reach the father's knees.
What comes from the lips reaches the ears, what comes from the heart reaches the heart.
If a child shoots an arrow that reaches the top of a tall palm tree, then it must be that an elderly person carved the arrow for him.
March cold reaches even bull's horns.
The walking-stick reaches many lands, the word many more.
Who reaches for the spruce, falls down onto the juniper.
The dog learns to swim when the water reaches his ears.
Always taking out and never putting in, soon reaches the bottom.
The water from the river becomes salty when it reaches the ocean.
The goodness of the father reaches higher than a mountain; that of the mother goes deeper than the ocean.
Do not throw away the oars before the boat reaches the shore.
The intelligence of the average individual reaches its lowest ebb when he enters a railroad station.
A person's character reaches town before the person does.
Goodness reaches further than badness.
When a palm-branch reaches its height, it gives way for a fresh one to grow.
None reaches further than his arms reach.
The morning rainbow reaches the fountains; the evening rainbow fills the sails.
When water reaches up to the nose, the calf is a swimmer.
Skill is only a rumour, until it reaches the muscle.
For a drunkard the sea only reaches his knees.
Satan's friendship reaches the prison door.
Nothing reaches the intellect before making its appearance in the senses.
What reaches the top of the hill cannot be called back.
A thousand regrets do not pay one debt.
Regrets always come later.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets along the way.
He who hesitates, regrets.
Who suffers will have no regrets.
Regrets are like a child, They come some considerable time after event.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets.
Of what good is giving birth when later there regrets of disrespect.
When a person regrets endlessly, he gets to pay more for what he regrets.
A man is not old until his regrets take the place of his dreams.
Think first your idea, for later regrets are useless.
Even in hell you meet relations.
Your relations are more deserving of your generosity.
All strangers are relations to each other.
The ass embraced the thistle, and they found themselves relations.
I want more for my teeth than for my relations.
I beggar is not favoured even by his relations.
Relations last longer when the family is in distress.
Poor relations have little honour.
A dead man has neither relations nor friends.
My teeth before my relations.
A true friend is better than relations.
If you believe everything you read, you had better not read.
If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity.
A letter from the heart can be read on the face.
Better to write down something one time than to read something ten times.
How many daily read the Bible, and yet pursue their course of evil.
How many daily read the Word, and yet from vice are not deterred.
Better than the ignorant are those who read books; better still are those who retain what they read; even better are those who understand it; the best of all are those who go to work.
The noblemen's quarrels can be read on the backs of the peasants.
Some sow, others read.
It is better to write down something once than read it ten times.
It's better to not read at all than to believe everything you read. The day you decide to do it is your lucky day.
A dictionary can only be read when it is printed.
When you have read a book for the first time, you get to know a friend; read it for a second time and you meet an old friend.
Read critically, and you will find each word worth a thousand ounces of gold.
Those who do not read are no better off than those who can not.
If your books are not read, your descendants will be ignorant.
He who can read and write has four eyes.
Every man is a volume if you know how to read him.
It is vain to fish without a hook, or learn to read without a book.
Firelight will not let you read fine stories, but it's warm and won't let you see the dust on the floor.
God protect us from him who has read but one book.
A red dog, a read horse, a red man - none of them are good.
That which is written, is meant to be read.
Read like the devil reads the Bible.
There is no law written for fools ( if it is written it's not read, if it is read it's not understood, if it is understood, in the wrong way).
A prudent man will read the letter from back to front.
You don't have to know much to read, but you do to cook.
The law is read in nine ways and always right.
If all else fails, read the directions.
Clear sky, cultivate; rainy, read.
Classic, a book which people praise and don't read. (Mark Twain)
Do not rejoice over what has not yet happened.
When you die, you rejoice, and the world cries.
Rejoice not at thine enemy's fall”–but don't rush to pick his up, either.
Do not sigh, for your enemy will hear and rejoice.
When your neighbor's horse falls into a pit, you should not rejoice at it, for your own child may fall into it too.
Don't rejoice over him that goes, before you see him that comes.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live you life in a manner so that when you die the world cries and you rejoice.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice.
Receive and rejoice, antonio, it's your celebration; always receive and never restrain.
Do not rejoice at my grief, for when mine is old yours will be new.
Rejoice not ever at tidings of ill, but glad let thy soul be in good.
Fools rejoice for a bad thing.
When hyenas go away jackals rejoice.
I rejoice that kolomba's mother is dead.
Rejoice not at your enemy's fall, but don't pick him up, either.
When your enemy falls, don't rejoice - but don't pick him up either.
Virtue and valour rejoice in being put to the test.
Rejoice with those that do rejoice.
First food, then religion.
Let christians practice their own religion, and jews practice theirs.
Religion is the best armor in the world, but the worst cloak.
A man without religion is a horse without a bridle.
Prayer is the pillow of religion.
Below the navel there is neither religion nor truth.
No man's religion ever survived his morals.
To you your religion and to me my religion.
True religion is in one's heart.
Religion, credit, and the eye are not to be touched.
Righteousness is half of religion.
A good advice is part of the Religion..
If not for religion, people would've killed each other.
Nature teaches us to love our friends, but religion our enemies.
Religion will perish because of excessive comforts.
Jest not with the eye, or religion.
A man devoid of religion is like a horse without a bridle.
Religion must be taught, not forced.
It cannot be true religion if it loves money.
It cannot be true religion if it loves money.
A real scoundrel turned up and they took off their hats to him.
Our real grave is not in the ground but in men's hearts.
It is a real compliment that comes from an enemy.
The real unlucky one will sprain his thumb when he blows his nose.
The person who only accepts friends without faults will never have any real friends.
The real hero doesn't say that he is one.
Real fraternity is not about blood, it is about sharing.
A good character is real beauty that never fades.
The real journey of discovery begins in old age.
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.
A real friend is one who takes the hand of his friend in times of distress and helplessness.
A real friend takes the hand of his friend in overwhelming worry and fire.
A loss not missed by your neighbor is not a real loss.
To a person who has real shame, words are oath.
A fool who knows Latin is never a real fool.
A real family eats the same cornmeal.
Real power is in the heart.
Who mistrusts everybody is the real enemy of the village.
A real family eats the same cornmeal.
Even if you hide yourself from the world, don't lose sight of your real nature.
Virtue practiced to be seen is not real virtue; vice which fears to be seen is real vice.
The real scholar is not afraid to ask questions of his pupil.
Real friendship is a slow grower.
Real happiness is found not in doing the things you like to do, but in liking the things you have to do.
Man's only real possession is his character.
The only real equality is in the cemetery.
The loss which your neighbour does not know is no real loss.
The unfortunate know who are their real friends.
Do you want to experience real thirst? Then try eating bitter cardoons and roasted fava beans.
To recognize a real friend, you have to together have eaten three bushels of salt.
Only your real friends will tell you when your face is dirty.
An imaginary sickness is worse than a real one.
A woman's tears and a log's limping are not real.
When there is real danger, the dogs don't bark.
The real world is a special case.
The real nettle will sting early.
Real wealth consists not in having, but in not wanting.
The only real true supporter the politician sees in the mirror.
Real success is success of the soul.
Life has become a little less sweet, death a little less bitter, heaven a little more real.
He who marries a real beauty is seeking trouble.
As long as a cock lives, it is said to have belonged to the child of the house; but when it is slaughtered for super, it is then that the real owner emerges.
The real capital of a man is a mirror worth two cents.
Who got it, did get it; and who left it, did regret it.
Better to sell with regret than to keep with regret.
Better to sell it with regret than to keep it.
What is done under the four moons need never be recalled nor regretted.
The sins we often regret are the sins we never commit.
It's no shame to look into the warm spring sun and regret a lost limb.
Who promises a lot will regret a lot.
Describe, usually with regret, something that has already happenned and is irreversible.
One does not regret giving one's own ear-ring to one's dear friend.
The bachelors crave to get married, and the married ones regret they got married.
The bachelors crave it, and the married ones regret it.
Do not anxiously hope for that which is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is already past.
The unfaithful woman has remorse, the faithful one has regret.
Careless hurry may cause endless regret.
Forgive and regret much later.
Fret today, regret tomorrow.
Manhood is quite a struggle, old age a regret.
The obvious choice is usually a quick regret.
The beginning of anger is madness and the end of it is regret.
If regret was a horn, one's horn would reach the sky.
A three day long merry-making and regret lasting till death.
At pentecost, he who does not celebrate lives to regret it.
If you drink a belly full you'll regret it all day.
Marry your children with their peers so you won't regret it someday.
Indulgence breeds regret.
You'll regret in vain when you scorn good advice.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
Truth came to market but could not be sold; however, we buy lies with ready cash.
A word about to be spoken is like a stone that is ready to be thrown.
Plant rice when the ground is ready; pursue women when you feel passion.
The bowman who is a bad marksman has a lie ready.
There's nobody can prevent you getting into heaven, but there are many always ready to give you a shove into hell.
The tears of the adulteress are ever ready to be shed.
A teacher will appear when the student is ready.
Get thy spindle and thy distaff ready, and God will send flax.
Underneath every bush you'll find a mud rabbit ready to bolt.
There are three faithful friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
Who are ready to believe are easy to deceive.
Credit is better than ready money.
Too many barbers would be ready to shave the beard of a beardless man.
The sun is still beautiful, though ready to set.
One with the courage to laugh is master of the world almost as much as the one who is ready to die.
The strength of the old is their ready counsel.
The ready back gets all the loads.
A hand that is ready to hit may cause you great trouble.
The cat with cream on her whiskers should have a good excuse ready.
Make a friend of the wolf, but keep your axe ready.
Make yourself a sheep and the wolf is ready.
Eat when the meal is ready, speak when the time is ripe.
He expects that larks will fall ready roasted into his mouth.
When the explorer is ready, the guide will appear.
If you wish for peace, be ready for war.
When the will is ready the feet are light.
When the pupil is ready to learn, a teacher will appear.
When you mention a snake, have a stick ready in your hand.
Get the coffin ready and watch the man mend.
The butterfly becomes only when it's entirely ready.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
What lowers itself is ready to fall.
Don't beat the drums of war unless you're ready to fight.
He who lends out his door should be ready for the cold blowing wind.
When the cockroach decides to make the cock its friend it must be ready to end up in the cock's stomach.
The archer that shoots badly has a lie ready.
To think that larks will fall into one's mouth ready roasted.
Ye have a ready mouth for a ripe cherry.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over chitterlings is ready for marriage.
Don't pay a single gold coin for the sorrell, but when he's good, be ready to spend a fortune.
He who stands by his point of view, must be ready to suffer hunger.
Nothing is more elegant than ready money!
A house ready made and a wife to make.
Ready money works great cures.
Why marry, when your neighbor's wife is ready to go to bed with you?
Who steals the minaret will have a cover ready.
When the bundles of tobacco are ready, dancing begins.
Demand a kiss from a fat woman, and be ready to receive a sweet taste.
When they give you the calf, be ready with the halter.
The archer that shoots badly has a lie ready.
The one whom the piglet is offered must keep the sack ready.
A guest should not cause his host's demise. When the guest is ready to leave, his host should not have given him a hunch-back.
Where your will is ready your feet are light.
He is easy to lure, who is ready to follow.
He who stands by his point of view, must be ready to suffer hunger.
Many hands are quickly ready with the work.
Where your will is ready, your feet are light.
When the cage is ready the bird is flown.
They asked a bullfrog, "Why do you croak all the time?” He replied, "I'm enchanted with my voice.”.
When asked, "What news from the sea?” The fish replied "I have a lot to say, but my mouth is full of water.”.
There is no reply to the ignorant like keeping silence.
Don't reply one wrong with another.
If they are uttering insults and don't mean you, and yet you reply, you have condemned yourself.
Give equal in reply, answer according to the call.
To a hasty demand a leisure reply.
I speak of garlic, you reply about onions.
They asked a bullfrog, They asked a bullfrog, "Why do you croak all the time?" He replied, "I'm enchanted with my voice."
As you sow, so shall you reap.
He that sows shall also reap.
If you sow arrows, you will reap sorrows.
As you sow, so you reap.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
Big men are not the only kind that can reap a harvest.
It is not the big farmers who reap all the harvest.
Whatever you sow, you reap.
As one sows, so shall he reap.
To speak is to sow; to listen is to reap.
The heap of yams you will reap depends upon the number of mounds you have plowed.
Who sows what shall reap that.
Better reap two days too soon than one too late.
Great greediness to reap, helps not the money-heap.
Better reap two days early than one day late.
What you sow, so shall you reap.
Do good, reap good; do evil, reap evil.
Each generation will reap what the former generation has sown.
If a man plants melons he will reap melons; if he sows beans, he will reap beans.
He who sows inequity shall reap shame.
He who sows money, will reap poverty.
As you sow, you shall reap.
What you reap is what you sow.
He that soweth good seed shall reap good corn.
He that sows thistles shall reap prickles.
They that sow the wind, shall reap the whirlwind.
Who sows a wind will reap a storm.
Who sows evil shall reap perdition.
You reap what you sow.
As you sow, you shall reap.
One who sows wind will reap hurricane.
As you sow, you shall reap.
You reap the crop of another.
Seek not the luxuries of life lest you reap sorrow.
He that sows the wind shall reap the whirlwind.
Judge each day not by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.
Translation 2: He who sows the wind shall reap the storm.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
Weed 'um and reap.
As one sows, so shall he reap.
You reap what you sow.
Sow good and you'll reap good; sow bad and you'll reap bad.
If you persevere, you will reap the fruits of your labor.
Sow much, reap much; sow little, reap little.
You reap what you sow.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
Cleaning the house will not pay the rent.
Your lord's rent or your child's life.
Rent and taxes never sleep.
If you live in my heart, you live rent free.
Friendship should be unpicked, not rent.
Don't confide secrets to your wife, don't rent if your house, don't have cops as a Godfathers.
Better is rule than rent.
Plough or not plough, you must pay your rent.
Providence is better than a rent.
That smells bad, said the cat about meat that it cannot reach.
No matter how fast the poplar grows, it will never reach heaven.
When the monkey can't reach the ripe banana with his hand, he says it is not sweet.
Stretch your hands as far as they reach, grab all you can grab.
The elephant will reach to the roof of the house.
Follow the road and you will reach an inn.
Walking slowly, even the donkey will reach Lhasa.
You will reach your destination even though you travel slowly.
With a walking-stick you reach many lands; you reach many more with words.
Not being able to reach it with your hat.
What reaches the mother's heart will only reach the father's knees.
Only scratch where you can reach.
The eye sees, but the hand can't reach.
The hand of the child cannot reach the shelf, nor the hand of the adult get through the neck of the gourd.
The king lives way up where the stench of the poor cannot reach him.
Do not believe that you will reach your destination without leaving the shore.
A mountain doesn't reach out to mountain, a man is reaching out to a man.
A tilted load won't reach its destination.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
Put out the fire betimes, ere it reach the roof.
As honest as a cat when the meat is out of reach.
When the fox cannot reach the grapes he says they are not ripe.
All the water in the sea doesn't even reach the knees of the man who fears not death.
Help your brother's boat across, and your own will reach the shore.
The cat which did not reach the sausage said: Anyhow it is Friday.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
The fox did not reach the grape, said it's unripe.
Hang your knapsack where you can reach it.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
If you reach for something that is far too good for you, it is not going to end well.
When you climb the mountain and reach the top, do not forget the branches shrubs that helped your footing.
You may adopt an indirect approach to reach your goal.
Impatience with your brother is in the flesh, it doesn't reach the bone.
That fear may reach all, punish but few.
In life, it is always possible to reach agreement in the end.
When you reach the top, keep climbing.
If you can envision it, You can accomplish it. If you can imagine it, You can reach the heavens.
Don't hang your hat where you cant reach it.
Don't hang your hat higher than you can reach.
Never hang your hat higher than you can reach.
Do not hope to reach a destination without leaving the shore.
When there is a big tree, small ones climb on its back to reach the sun.
Those who walk slowly reach a far, hence to hurry is not worth.
A short person touches where he can reach.
Words from the heart reach the heart, words from the mouth reach the ear.
If you reach for the highest of ideals, you shouldn't settle for less than the stars.
Let him who would reach another a brand, beware that he do not burn his own hand.
Whatever is given to the poor, is laid out of the reach of fortune.
A Haughty person will not even reach down to take his own nose if it had fallen to the ground.
If regret was a horn, one's horn would reach the sky.
The braying of an ass does not reach heaven.
The master has long arms, but they don't reach heaven.
None reaches further than his arms reach.
The braying of donkeys doesn't reach heaven.
Be slow to reach for your purse and quick to tip your hat.
The barking of dogs does not reach heaven.
If the first goat goes lame, those that follow will not reach the pasture.
When we cannot get what we love, we must love what is within our reach.
Who aims at things beyond his reach, the greater will be his fall.
That which is beyond our reach is nothing to us.
Things beyond our reach are not worth our consideration.
Don't hang yer basket higher than you can reach 'em.
Man cannot reach perfection in a hundred years; he can fall in a day with time to spare.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
That my friend should be well is our wish, and that our enemies should be gone! May those friendly to you reach their goal as a ship does a friendly harbour! May your enemy, like the flood waters of a river, return to his city.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
Put your hand nae farther oot than your sleeve will reach.
Compulsory prayers never reach heaven.
Noh put yu cap wh? yu caang reach it.
Abuses are the result of seeing one another too often.
Haste does not result in prosperity.
There is no economy in going to bed early to save candles if the result is twins.
Gossiping about the enemy can result in a war.
No time for your health today, will result in no health for your time tomorrow.
One minute of patience can result in ten years of peace.
Good habits result from resisting temptation.
It is not economical to go to bed early to save the candles if the result is twins.
What a man can be is born with him; what he becomes is a result of his environment.
Good habits result from resisting temptation.
Misfortune does not always result in harm.
I tell you one thing, two will result from it.
Every answer can result in a new question.
Clouds and thunder don't always result in rain.
If love is a sickness, patience is the remedy.
Counsel is irksome when the matter is past remedy.
There is a remedy for all things save death.
He that conceals his grief finds no remedy for it.
the remedy of fire is fire.
There is a remedy for everything, could we but hit upon it.
For every evil under the sun there is a remedy or there is none.
There is a remedy for everything, could men find it.
No wrong without a remedy.
There is a remedy for everything; it is called death.
The remedy is often worse than the disease.
The remedy for injuries is not to remember them.
Discretion is knowing how to hide that which we cannot remedy.
If there be no remedy, why worry?
A single untried popular remedy often throws the scientific doctor into hysterics.
A good remedy for anger is delay.
Distance is the best remedy against an evil-disposed man.
Sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease.
The remedy may be worse than the disease.
Birth is the only remedy against death.
Midday sun is the remedy for a cold.
The remedy is worse than the disease.
Those who conceal their grief find no remedy for it.
There is no remedy for what will be and who will die.
If the bald knew a remedy he would rub it on his own head.
To-morrow's remedy will not ward off the evil of to-day.
There is a remedy for everything but death.
A strong remedy for evils is ignorance of them.
The remedy for injuries is to forget them.
There is no remedy against the bite of a secret slanderer.
When your neighbor got the itches you too must seek the remedy.
To cut off the head is no remedy for the headache.
There is a remedy for everything but death.
There is a remedy for everything except death.
He who is wasting away with trouble must seek remedy.
Do not remove a fly from your friend's forehead with a hatchet.
Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Who doesn't want a fire, should remove the wood.
To remove the hairs from a horse's tail, one by one must be plucked out.
Remove the stone and you won't stumble.
Those who remove mountains begin by carrying away small stones.
Remove firewood from under a pot.
If you want to remove a mountain start with one stone at a time.
To remove a fly from a friend's forehead never use a hatchet.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Who remove stones bruise their fingers.
If one were to remove every smoking wood from a fire and condemn it as bad, one would be killing the fire itself.
Our elders say that at sunset, it is one's cloth that one goes to remove from the village square.
One finger cannot remove lice from the head.
When you remove the pack-saddle the sores become visible.
Alacci, remove the bones and be left with the bother.
From a silent person remove your dwelling.
Temporary isolation is good for guidance. It is good for the mind to remove itself momentarily from something.
It's better to be silent and thought a fool, than to speak up and remove all doubt.
One should not remove what belongs to my mistress Inana.
To remove something from its proper place is an abomination to Ninurta.
Water aid does not remove completely the dirt.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool that to speak and remove all doubt.
To put off repentance is dangerous.
Repentance never comes first.
Repentance is good, but innocence is better.
Sudden trust brings sudden repentance.
Amendment is repentance.
Repentance is the heart's medicine.
From listening comes wisdom, and from speaking repentance.
Hastiness is the beginning of wrath, and its end repentance.
Take nothing in hand that may bring repentance.
Repentance costs dear.
There is no repentance after death.
Late repentance is rarely sincere.
The tail and repentance go behind.
Repentance for silence is better than repentance for speaking.
Repentance is the spring beneath our virtues.
Anger begins with folly, and ends with repentance.
Short acquaintance brings repentance.
Wrath begins in madness and ends in repentance.
The best part of repentance is a little sinning.
He who will not take cheap advice, will have to buy dear repentance.
Late repentance is seldom worth much.
Every one finds sin sweet and repentance bitter.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
Repentance prolongs a man's life.
Better a night full of anger than a night full of repentance.
A late repentance is a dogs idea.
Repentance won't cure mischief.
Repentance washes away sin.
Wedlock rides in the saddle and repentance on the crupper.
From short pleasure long repentance.
Who has time yet waits for time, comes to a time of repentance.
Repentance won't cure mischief.
Forethought is easy, repentance hard.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
Repentance costs dear.
Better to die than to live on with a bad reputation.
The soldiers' blood, the general's reputation.
If you hurt the reputation of another, you damage your own.
If you take care of your character, your reputation will take care of itself.
Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark.
If you get a reputation as an early riser, you can sleep till noon.
The river's reputation ends where the sea begins.
A good reputation is better than a golden girdle.
Try to deserve the reputation you enjoy.
When ten thousand soldiers lie rotting, the general's reputation is enhanced.
Sometimes it takes only an hour to get a reputation that lasts for a thousand years.
Don't consider your reputation and you may do anything you like.
Of a dead leopard we keep the skin, of man his reputation.
Character is what we are; reputation is what others think we are.
It is not often that a man's reputation outlasts his money.
A good reputation stands still; a bad one runs.
Reputation is commonly measured by the acre.
When a door opens not to your knock, consider your reputation.
The reputation of a man is like his shadow; it sometimes follows and sometimes precedes him, it is sometimes longer and sometimes shorter than his natural size.
A person's reputation is like his shadow-sometimes it follows and sometimes it precedes him; and sometimes it is smaller and sometimes it is bigger than he is.
He who has lost his reputation is a dead man among the living.
Glass, China, and Reputation, are easily crack'd and never well mended.
The reaper earned a reputation and fell asleep.
Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark.
It is not often that a man's reputation outlasts his money.
Living is not a reward and dying is no crime.
The consequence is the reward of the cause.
Two things rule the world -- reward and punishment.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
Reward sweetens labour.
Run as hard as a wild beast if you will, but you won't get any reward greater than that destined for you.
Virtue is the reward.
Profit is it's own reward.
Children are the reward of life.
A lean fee is a fit reward for a lazy clerk.
If you can't reward then you should thank.
Ingratitude is the world's reward.
Do a good thing and throw it in the river. God will reward you in the desert.
Ingratitude is the world's reward.
Virtue is its own reward.
Desert and reward seldom keep company.
The reward of silence is certain.
Reward not a sleeping pilot.
The journey is the reward.
Virtue is the reward of virtue.
Honour is the reward of virtue.
The reward of a thing rightly done is to have done it.
It is better to be married to an old lady than to remain unmarried.
A girl with a golden cradle doesn't remain long in her father's house.
The roses fall, the thorns remain.
Neither money nor the devil can remain in peace.
If we don't fight we remain equals, if we do fight then one of us wins.
A wise mans ink lasts until only the stupid remain.
Destroy a country, but its mountains and rivers remain.
Even if the old woman has no teeth, her tiger nuts remain in her own bag.
When all the water has gone, only the largest stones will remain on the riverbed.
If we do what we always did we will always remain what we always we're.
Debts remain from day to day.
Revenge does not long remain unrevenged.
Fair flowers to not remain long by the wayside.
Apes remain apes, though you cloth them in velvet.
To remain young while growing old is the highest blessing.
Either remain quiet, or say things that improve the silence.
The dog's tail, even if buried for twelve years, will remain as crooked as ever.
He who makes himself a servant is expected to remain a servant.
A pad that breaks a pot of water does not remain on the head.
When a woman cannot have good palm-nuts to give her rich oil, she still has to maintain decency in order to remain one of those that sell good quality oil.
Memory slips, letters remain.
Those who are discontent to remain in one place will not earn much.
No matter how much snow falls, it won't remain there all the way till summer.
Feet that are used to move cannot remain quiet.
It is foolish for someone to remain thirsty when he is in the midst of water.
Where there was fire, ashes remain.
A sandstorm passes; the stars remain.
Do not whirl a snake in the air when you have killed it; the ones which remain in their holes see you.
St. Swithin's Day, if thou dost rain, for forty days it will remain; St. Swithin's Day, if thou be fair, for forty days 'twill rain no more.
The elephant dies, but his tusks remain.
Your years will still remain the same whether you laugh or cry.
Never do anything that you want to remain a secret.
Bones and flesh of the martyrs lie buried in earth, but their revolutionary spirit and single-hearted fidelity remain alive.
There is no way you can pour water into a basket and expect the water to remain.
Even if you remain an island you must still be friendly to the sea.
Search for a friend with no faults and you will remain with no friends.
No matter how high the vulture may choose to soar, the eagle will remain king of the sky.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Cleanse thy heart from greed, and thy foot shall remain free from fetters.
The best go first, the bad remain to mend.
As long as there will remain two men on earth, jealousy will reign.
Fair flowers do not remain long by the wayside.
Let the shoemaker remain at his last.
Words fly, writings remain.
You can't live a long life and remain upright.
Remain honorable and don't worry if you're poor.
The less things change, the more they remain the same.
Roses fall, but the thorns remain.
Fair flowers do not remain long by the wayside.
The surest way to remain poor is to be an honest man.
A man who seeks a perfect friend, will remain friendless.
A guest should not remain for ever a guest.
One who is ignorant will remain unnoticed.
One who tries to hide with a dog, a child, a goat, or a person with a cold, will not remain hidden.
Remain among the clumps of grass and do not elevate yourself.
Good deeds remain, all things else perish.
Man's law changes with his understanding of man. Only the laws of the spirit remain always the same.
The elephant dies, but his tusks remain.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool that to speak and remove all doubt.
Saint Swithun's day, if thou be fair, for forty days it will remain; Saint Swithun's day, if thou bring rain, for forty days it will remain.
After the conflagration ruins remain.
When a man gets his feet in lime he cannot easily get rid of it.
You must kill the hornets to get rid of the nest.
To get rid of anger, first weed out the bitter roots.
He who has once invited the devil into his house, will never be rid of him.
He keeps his road well enough who gets rid of bad company.
Wherever you go, you can't get rid of yourself.
You must kill the spider to get rid of the cobweb.
The snail, to be rid of annoyances, bartered its eyes for horns.
Give orders, and do it yourself, and you will be rid of anxiety.
Do you want to make the mute speak? Get rid of his troubles.
Order and do it, and you will be rid of anxiety.
Women and wine rid a man of his common sense.
You can't get rid of Pori without fighting and of Tampere without a woman.
Burn not your house to rid it of the mouse. (Strauss, 1994 p. 568)
One does not burn a blanket to get rid of a flea.
One always returns to one's first love.
A good deed is something one returns.
The cock goes to town for only four days and returns home a peacock.
Honour once lost never returns.
The dog returns to its vomit.
What is loaned goes away smiling but returns weeping.
This basket that leaves and returns unfilled is not nice.
Share riches and poverty returns.
He who leaves and then returns, had a good trip.
Whoever goes to Palermo and doesn't see Monreale, goes there a jackass and returns a fool.
Time past never returns.
The tongue always returns to the sore tooth.
When a good offer comes for your daughter, don't wait till her father returns from market.
Who asks at once for a lot, returns home with an empty bag.
Who guards two termite hills, returns empty handed.
As a dog returns to his vomit, so a fool returns to his folly.
A fallen blossom never returns to the branch.
Drinks down your sorrow, but your sorrow returns the morning after.
When the hunter returns and is holding mushrooms, don't ask him about how his hunt went.
If a man returns from a long journey and no one says welcome back to him he feels like one who has not arrived.
A good deed is something one returns.
A neglected duty may returns tomorrow with seven others at its back.
Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns.
Treachery returns.
He ought not to complain of the sea who returns to it a second time.
Who goes to Rome a beast returns a beast.
The hare always returns to her form.
The bird flies high, but always returns to earth.
Nobody returns where he got his finger bitten,.
The have always returns to her form.
One should punish a child the first time he comes home with a stolen egg. Otherwise, the day he returns home with a stolen ox, it will be too late.
A good son returns home and tells what happens.
A donkey which goes to grow horns returns with its ears cut off.
What is good returns.
Quick returns mak rich merchants.
All returns – everything comes back.
For want of a nail the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; for want of a horse the rider was lost.
Although the horse is stupid, it does not follow that the rider is stupid.
Cider on beer, never fear; beer upon cider, makes a bad rider.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost; for want of a shoe the horse is lost; for want of a horse the rider is lost.
A good ruser was never a good rider.
To a good rider, right or left makes no difference.
A horse knows his rider by his spurs.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse is lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
The horse thinks one thing, and his rider another.
If you see a man riding a wooden stick, say to him "Good health to your horse".
If you see him riding on a bamboo-cane, say to him, "Good health to your horse!"
He is riding the donkey, but has lost the donkey.
More belongs to riding than a pair of boots.
Money's for buying and a horse is for riding.
It is good to go afoot when one is tired of riding.
It is better to ride for half a year on a good horse than to spend your entire life riding on a mule.
Absentmindedness is searching for the horse you are riding.
If you enjoy riding, you better enjoy pulling the sleigh.
When riding on top of an elephant do not assume there is no dew in the thicket.
We have not saddled and yet we are riding.
Good riding at two anchors men have told, For it one break, the other yet may hold.
You are like the man that sought his mare, and he riding on her.
Better a chigging mother, nor a riding father.
A cowboy doesn't ride a bull for fame he rides because he loves riding.
If you see someone riding a bamboo-cane, tell him "What a lovely horse!"
Riding on a goat is better than the very best walking.
No strength within, no respect without.
If you want to be respected, you must respect yourself.
He who knew you when you were young will not respect you when you grow up.
The person who knew you when you were young will seldom respect you as an adult.
Respect for the rights of others is peace.
If you know a lot, know enough to make them respect you, if you are stupid, be stupid enough so they can pity you.
Whoever does not respect you, insults you.
The old should be treated with due respect. Children should be treated with gentleness.
If you go too near your relatives, they will not respect you.
Respect yourself, and you will get it back.
It is unwise for one to think that a hen will ever be accorded respect in the land of the hawks.
May your neighbors respect you, Trouble neglect you, The angels protect you, And heaven accept you.
The worse it is, in one respect, the better, in another respect.
Familiarity breeds contempt; distance breeds respect.
Have no respect at table and in bed.
Respect bread because bread is older than we are.
Never spend time with people who don't respect you.
If the tiger sits, do not think it is out of respect.
The wind does not respect a fool.
Respect a little child, and let it respect you.
Respect starts with yourself.
Who ever does not respect confidence will never find happiness in their path.
Respect a little child, and let it respect you.
Respect old people, and be gentle with children.
If you respect others, others will respect you.
Respect for one's parents is the highest duty of civil life.
Respect spiritual beings but keep your distance.
Negotiate with your enemy whilst you are a strong and formidable force, and he will always fear and respect you, but negotiate at the brink of defeat, and he will trample you down.
Those who respect the elderly pave their own road toward success.
He who is grown up should respect and love others.
He who doesn't know a grave's coldness, doesn't give the dead their respect.
One who cannot respect himself cannot respect another.
Act like you are an idiot and everyone will respect you.
Whoever knew you when you were small will not respect you when you're big.
Time has no respect for beauty.
Respect flies away for the one who pursues it and hunts the person who is fleeing from it.
Both water and fire need to be treated with respect.
If you lose your self-respect, you also lose the respect of others.
The greatest evidence of demoralization is the respect paid to wealth.
To beards with money cavaliers pay respect.
No one in a shabby coat is treated with respect.
Antiquity is entitled to respect.
When we show our respect for other living things, they respond with respect for us.
Treat yourself and each other with respect.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
One who cannot respect himself cannot respect another.
Respect is greater from a distance.
If you respect your mother, you'll go to heaven, that's how high a mother's place is.
The poor man commands respect; the beggar must always excite anger.
A true gentleman will respect a woman even in her weakness.
Forgiveness hides a pleasure that you can't get back from revenge.
The revenge that is postponed is not forgotten.
Revenge is a dish that tastes better cold.
In taking revenge, a man is but even with his enemy; but in passing it over, he is superior.
Revenge converts a little right into a great wrong.
Revenge does not long remain unrevenged.
Revenge of an hundred years old hath still its sucking teeth.
Revenge remains not unrevenged.
Revenge in cold blood is the devil's own act and deed.
A hundred-year-old revenge still has its baby teeth.
He who cannot revenge himself is weak, he who will not is contemptible.
Revenge a hundred years old has still its milk-teeth.
Wait time and place to take your revenge, for it is never well done in a hurry.
Shameful deeds bring on revenge.
When Anger and Revenge get married, their daughter is called Cruelty.
Pray for revenge, and God will turn a deaf ear.
To forget a wrong is the best revenge.
When cold revenge is served, the dish is always very good.
Revenge is the best revenge.
To take revenge on an enemy, give him an elephant -- first he must thank you for the gift, and then the elephant's appetite will deplete your enemy's resources.
Those who seek revenge must remember to dig two graves.
He who takes revenge for a small insult, will have a bigger one thrown at him.
He who seeks revenge should remember to dig two graves.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
The person who pursues revenge should dig two graves.
Revenge is a dish that should be eaten cold.
Forgiveness is more satisfying than revenge.
It is better to die in revenge than to live on in shame.
If you want to take revenge on a man, send him a really beautiful woman.
Ambition and revenge are always hungry.
He who would seek revenge must be on his own guard.
Revenge is sweet.
Who has patience sees his revenge.
Revenge is sweet.
No revenge is more honourable than the one not taken.
Revenge is a confession of pain.
Neglect will sooner kill an injury than revenge.
Revenge is a dish that can be eaten cold.
There is small revenge in words, but words may be greatly revenged.
Not able to take revenge on the donkey, take it out on the saddle.
Life is like perpetual drunkenness, the pleasure passes but the headache remains.
A cat goes to a monastery, but she still remains a cat.
There is nothing new under the sun- and that's why there remains such a mess.
The boat sails by, the shore remains.
One who does not look ahead remains behind.
To him who is determined it remains only to act.
Love flies away and the pain remains.
If you marry a monkey for his wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains as is.
A wise woman has much to say and yet remains silent.
The tongue is soft but constantly remains; the teeth are hard yet they fall out.
Lead a pig to the Rhine, it remains a pig.
Revenge remains not unrevenged.
He who marries does well, but who remains single does better.
The tree remains, but not so the hand that put it.
An ox remains an ox, even if driven to Vienna.
When a face is sullen it remains there to be seen on its owner.
The ox will die but its harness remains.
He who does not look ahead always remains behind.
In the place a donkey dies, fur remains.
The rich man breaks through the mesh and escapes, the afflicted man remains in the net and is caught.
Beauty passes, but perfection remains with us.
A monkey remains a monkey, though dressed in silk.
Ten who shout obtain more than ten who remains silent.
Don't go selling the hide while the bear remains in the hole.
When a shield wears out, the framework still remains.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
Cunning comes to an end, what remains is folly.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
No matter how thoroughly a crow may wash, it remains ever black.
Acts of kindness may soon be forgotten, but the memory of an offense remains.
A wound heals but the scar remains.
Cunning comes to an end, what remains is folly.
The sore is cured but the scar remains.
Though the blind man cannot see it, light remains light.
There is no flower that remains red for ten days, and no power that lasts for ten years.
A snake can shade its skin but it still remains a snake.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
One's name remains above the grave.
If you knock your head against a wall, then a coconut tree and pillar and your head still remains undamaged my child, go and hide that head of yours; it is a good head.
Who owns too much, remains unhappy.
Who busies himself where no profit is found remains a fool the whole year round.
A book that remains shut, is but a block.
A fool is like all other men as long as he remains silent.
A boor remains a boor even if sleeping on silken pillows.
Who loves not women, wine, and song, remains a fool his whole life long.
He who doesn't look ahead remains behind..
Good remains are nice to have.
Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer.
The feast passes and the fool remains.
Cut off the dog's tail, he remains a dog.
No meat ever remains in the shambles however bad it may be.
Even if the wound is healed, the scar of it remains.
Both the goat has enough to eat and the cabbage remains.
The doctor can come and go, but he who is sick remains so.
Guargual?, guargual?: it was rapids and remains rapids.
Grow old, body, the heart still remains.
The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything.
One who eats the remains of a meal without first obtaining permission.
Even if a monkey wears a golden ring, it is and remains an ugly thing.
Prices are forgotten, quality remains.
Nothing is done while something remains undone.
Wash a dog, comb a dog, still a dog remains a dog.
The feast passes and the fool remains.
He who remains in the mill grinds, not he who goes to and fro.
A diligent man ever finds that something remains to be done.
A cat may go to a monastery, but she still remains a cat.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
The word that is heard perishes, but the letter that is written remains.
He who asks may be a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever. .
Beauty Passes, wisdom remains.
The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything.
Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer.
A secret remains a secret only when one person knows it.
If you marry a monkey for its wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains.
No matter how thoroughly a crow may wash, it remains ever black.
If you don't walk after eating, your food remains undigested.
Even the fool is thought wise if he remains silent.
Even as the archer loves the arrow that flies, so too he loves the bow that remains constant in his hands.
Who seeks a faultless friend remains friendless.
The spoken word vanishes, the written word remains. [Vox audita perit, litteras scripta manet.].
Traveling is a return to the essentials.
A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return.
Receive a plum, return a peach.
If you return an ass's kick, most of the pain is yours.
When you return from a trip, bring back something for your family - even if it is only a stone.
One who drinks from the nile must return.
We are all flesh and blood of the earth and so will return to the ground as rotten maggot encrusted relics.
A child one does not instruct on return, one instructs him when going.
Take one, not that you may return with ten.
Fallen blossoms do not return to branches; a broken mirror does not again reflect.
The strong will protect the weak and, in return, the weak will serve the strong.
Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return.
Who accepts nothing has nothing to return.
It's better to return from the centre of the ford than drown in the flood.
He who does many bad deeds can expect a big one in return.
Do not expect good in return for a good deed.
The best gifts are those which expect no return.
When you go, the road is rough; when you return, smooth.
No matter how much you feed a wolf, he will always return to the forest.
Neither shall the wave, which has passed on, ever be recalled; nor can the hour, which has once fled by, return again.
Return property to its owner, and your sleep will be peaceful.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
Wish thy friend joy of his journey, but pray in secret that he have no joy, for then may he return quickly to thee.
There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country.
A child one does not instruct on return, one instructs him when going.
Though a tree grows ever so high, the falling leaves return to its roots.
When you go to fetch water and do not return, they do not inquire about the pot.
Goods given make quicker return than goods held.
If someone hits you with a stone, hit him with bread; your bread will return to you and his stone will return to him.
We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through. Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love... and then we return home.
There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country.
He who goes to the quarterdeck and forecastle will return to the hold eventualy.
I have anointed you with kohl, do you, in return, anoint me with pepper?.
Overturned water doesn't return to the tray.
Time is like a river - it flows by and doesn't return.
Fallen leaves return to the root.
He who was presented with an ox must give in return a horse.
What is fated to be yours will always return to you.
He who pelts another with paddles asks for stones in return.
Return to old watering holes for more than water; friends and dreams are there to meet you.
To travel is to see, to return is to talk.
That what comes to stay has come it cannot return.
We always return to our first loves.
Love without return is like a question without an answer.
If a poor man gives to you, he expects more in return.
Curses are like processions: they return to whence they set out.
Many return from the war who cannot give an account of the battle.
Who gives, teaches a return.
If a stone was thrown at you, throw back some bread in return.
Return the dolls clothes.
Better to return from half-way than to take a wrong road.
Neither draw me without cause, nor return me without honour.
A lie can take you far away-but with no hope of return.
Send a fool to the market and a fool he will return.
Better return half way than lose yourself.
Youth may stray afar yet return at last.
Don't run too far, you will have to return the same distance.
That which I receive, that I return.
If you give evil, you will receive evil. What negativity you send out will return to you.
We always return to our first loves.
The day does not return.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return.
That my friend should be well is our wish, and that our enemies should be gone! May those friendly to you reach their goal as a ship does a friendly harbour! May your enemy, like the flood waters of a river, return to his city.
In the morning potatoes, in the daytime potatoes and when the cows return in the evening it's potatoes again.
A little rain each day will fill the rivers to overflowing.
A deaf man may not have heard the thunder but he surely will see the rain.
When the rain falls in the valley, the hill gets angry.
If it were ever to rain soup, the poor would only have forks.
Rain does not fall on one roof alone.
Rain beats on a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots.
The rain wets the leopard's spots but does not wash them off.
Big thunder, little rain.
Thunder clouds do not always give rain.
For crystal rain falls from black clouds.
Giving advice to the ignorant is like the rain falling on muddy ground.
Sun is for cucumbers, rain for rice.
Rain does not stay in the sky.
Rain falls on everyone, but one person gets wetter than the rest.
Help from abroad always comes when the rain has stopped.
The rain follows after the forest.
How beautiful to watch the rain and not get wet.
Done in by his own trade like a water merchant in the rain.
Rocks need no protection from the rain.
If the prayers of dogs were answered, bones would rain from the sky.
How lovely is the sun after rain, and how lovely is laughter after sorrow.
Loving someone that does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest.
The rain falls on only one roof.
The rain does not all fall on one roof.
The rain can only drown the mud-rabbit if he hasn't the wits to keep his mouth shut.
Clouds are the sign of rain.
If every day was a sunny day, who would not wish for rain?
He who is drowned is not troubled by the rain.
Though God is almighty, he doesn't send rain from a clear sky.
He ran out from under a leaking roof and sat in the rain.
Clouds do not always mean rain, but smoke is a sure sign of fire.
The leopard that covers its black spots with hamaton dust solution will truly be exposed when the rain season comes.
He who is not beaten by the sun or the rain, will eventually be beaten by the hunger.
The sky does not rain gold or silver.
A promise is a cloud; fulfillment is rain.
He fled from the rain and sat down under the waterspout.
When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them.
Blame it on the rain.
A meeting in sunlight is lucky, and a burying in the rain.
The drowning man is not troubled by rain.
Clouds that thunder seldom rain.
Small rain lays a great wind.
Small rain lays great dust.
A cloak is not made for a single shower of rain.
Morning rain and women's tears dry as fast as each other.
If you are already wet, you won't care about the rain.
Not every cloud brings rain.
The house roof fights the rain, but he who is sheltered ignores it.
Sometimes the rain might force a man more than once to seek shelter under the same tree.
From a big cloud comes little rain.
When the rain fell at puuohaloa where were you.
There is life in the rain.
August rain brings oil, honey and must.
No rain without clouds.
Interest on debts grow without rain.
After rain comes sunshine.
All clouds do not rain.
After rain comes fair weather.
It's pleasant to look on the rain, when one stands dry.
Those that dislike cats will be carried to the cemetery in the rain.
Don't hope for rain or thunder, hope for an agronomist.
Rain falls alike on the just and the unjust.
Thunder is not yet rain.
One rain does not make a crop.
The rain falls on the just and the unjust.
The rain falls upon the just and the unjust.
The same rain that drenches the slave also drenches the slave driver.
It is not the thunder that causes the rain.
Rain before seven, fine before eleven.
St. Swithin's Day, if thou dost rain, for forty days it will remain; St. Swithin's Day, if thou be fair, for forty days 'twill rain no more.
Rain, rain, go away, come again another day.
The house-roof fights with the rain, but he who is sheltered ignores it.
Whoever got clothes hang out does look fuh rain.
There is no rain which does not enrich someone.
The toad that wanted to avoid the rain fell in the water.
The frog knows more about the rain than the calendar.
If Candlemas day be sunny and bright, winter will have another flight; if Candlemas day be cloudy with rain, winter is gone and won't come again.
If in february there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain.
The rain that is going to fall doesn't wet you.
Life is like this: sometimes sun, sometimes rain.
The farmer hopes for rain, the walker hopes for sunshine, and the gods hesitate.
If rain bothers you, you can always jump into the sea.
If there are no clouds there will be no rain.
Like bamboo shoots after rain.
A bird that prays for rain will find its self soaked.
A cloudy sky doesn't always cry rain.
Where rain has ever been trapped before when it rains again it will get trapped once again.
Where the rain falls there is no hunger.
Falling is easier than rising.
He who gets a name for early rising can stay in bed until midday.
Wise rising gives joy.
Rising early makes the road short.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
It dawns none the sooner for all one's early rising.
For all one's early rising, it dawns none the sooner.
Good luck beats early rising.
Those who get the name of rising early may lie all day.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
Early rising is most conducive to health.
Men worship the rising, not the setting sun.
All rising to great place is by a winding stair. (Francis Bacon)
Thy sun rising high, shall command!
Cold tea and cold rice are tolerable; cold looks and cold words aren't.
The immature rice stalk stands erect, while the mature stalk, heavy with grain, bends over.
With water make rivers, with rice make armies.
Plant rice when the ground is ready; pursue women when you feel passion.
Don't trust a hungry man to watch your rice.
Make the amount of sauce you use correspond to the amount of rice you have.
Sun is for cucumbers, rain for rice.
Sorrow is like rice in the store; if a basketful is removed everyday, it will come to an end at last.
Once the rice is pudding, it's too late to reclaim the rice.
You can't get rice by pounding bran.
Love is like a rice plant; transplanted, it can grow elsewhere.
Ants can attack with a grain of rice.
Love is like young rice: transplanted, still it grows.
Sorrow is like rice in an attic: you use a little every day and at the end it is all gone.
Love is just like rice - plant it elsewhere and it grows.
When the curry is tasty, the rice is hard.
Sweet rice is eaten quickly.
The bigger the pot the more rice will stick to it.
A pig used to dirt turns its nose up at rice.
Growing rice gives you more than poetry will.
Apple blossoms are beautiful, but rice dumplings are better.
He draws water over his own rice field.
A teacher is someone who ploughs with his tongue to fill his little bowl with rice.
If you plant grass, you won't get rice.
A warm fire is better than delicious cooked rice.
Fire, fire's better than rice.
The store of rice in your attic is your enemy -- it makes them who have none very jealous.
Without the forest, there will be no more water, without water, there will be no more rice.
Ya bringing ya dumplings to carry way ma rice.
Laugh at the rice and you will weep for the lentil.
A lazy person with a nephwe does not eat dry rice.
Better than a banquet somewhere else is a good cup of tea and a bowl of rice at home.
Cooked rice grains sticking to the soles of the feet.
Even though you tread slowly over your rice field it will become muddy.
If you have only two pennies left in the world, with the first penny, you should buy rice to feed your family. With the second penny, say the wise Japanese, you should buy a lily. The Japanese understand the importance of dreaming...
Luck is like having a rice dumpling fly into your mouth.
A bean-jam rice cake into the open mouth.
For rice cakes, go to the rice-cake maker.
To draw water into one's own rice field.
Without rice, even the cleverest housewife cannot cook.
If you are planning for a year, sow rice; if you are planning for a decade, plant trees; if you are planning for a lifetime, educate people.
If you are planning for one year, grow rice. If you are planning for 20 years grow trees. If you are planning for centuries, grow men.
You can live with tea and cold rice but not with cold words.
It's better for people to wait for rice, than rice for people.
You can never sow rice and expect to harvest maize.
The water in your well can be very hot, but it will never cook your rice.
He who wanders along the beach doesn't eat his rice dry.
Rice tastes good when properly cooked, and talking is good when the opportunity is ripe.
The educated man precedes the farmer. But when the rice begins to run short, it's the farmer who comes first.
God sells knowledge for labour, honour for risk.
He who doesn't risk never gets to drink champagne.
He who doesn't risk a penny doesn't make a peso.
Small print leads to large risk.
No risk, no gain.
Better to risk a little than to lose the whole.
God sells knowledge for labour -- honour for risk.
The one who does not risk anything does not gain nor lose.
He that holds the handle of a frying-pan runs the risk of burning himself.
No risk, no gain.
A cat loves fish, but won't risk its claws.
One cannot count on riches.
To the patient man will come all the riches of the world.
Knowledge is better than riches.
All riches come from the earth.
Charity is the spice of riches.
Unearned riches have no goods.
Riches take away more pleasures than they give.
He that keeps out of harm's way will gather goodly riches.
Contentment is worth more than riches.
Rags to riches to rags.
Riches have wings.
A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches.
Having a good discussion is like having riches.
He who has brothers has more than riches can buy.
A gracious woman obtains honor, and strong men obtain riches.
Fortune can take away riches but not courage.
The riches of the mind may make a man rich and happy.
Children are the riches of the poor.
Riches and favour go before wisdom and art.
Riches are often abused, but never refused.
Children are a poor man's riches.
Where friends, there riches.
Riches cause arrogance; poverty, meekness.
Where friends, there riches.
Children are poor men's riches.
A covetous man serves his riches, not they him.
Riches bring care and fears.
A good name is better than riches.
A lord without riches is a soldier without arms.
Learning is fine clothes for the rich man, and riches for the poor man.
Accumulation of riches brings wisdom.
Riches and poverty do not leave each other.
Riches are found in cultivating together.
Riches run after the rich, and poverty runs after the poor.
Riches serve a wise man, but command a fool.
Nobility is nothing but ancient riches, and money is the world's idol.
The riches that are in the heart cannot be stolen.
The more riches a fool hath, the greater fool he is.
In the report, of riches and goodness always bate one half.
The person seeking India's riches must have them within himself.
Riches fall not always to the lot of the most deserving.
Riches have disclosed in thy character the bad qualities formerly hhidden by thy poverty.
All riches are multiplied by the simple process of sharing them where they may serve others.
Riches are gotten with pain, kept with care, and lost with grief.
Riches serve a wise man but command a fool.
Children are poor men's riches.
The poor has no riches to give to his child but a beautiful name.
Riches are not from abundance of worldly goods, but from a contented mind.
Even the mightest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest.
"if I rest, I rust,” says the key.
If Ali is the camel-driver, he knows where to rest his camel.
The heart at rest sees a feast in everything.
Love is like fog - there is no mountain on which it does not rest.
Rain falls on everyone, but one person gets wetter than the rest.
Nobody can rest in his own shadow.
The house does not rest upon the ground, but upon a woman.
He who gets drenched at dawn has the rest of the day to dry out.
Some people want to be praised for the rest of their lives for what they have done well for one day.
The restless grasshopper only finds rest in the gizzard of a bird.
If the dog hadn't stopped to rest, he'd have caught the rabbit.
Eat leeks in march, garlic in may, all the rest of the year the doctors may play.
A change is as good as a rest.
If one sheep leaps over the ditch, all the rest will follow.
After dinner, rest; after supper walk a mile.
After lunch, rest; after dinner take a walk.
If the heart is empty, the rest will soon abandon you too.
Give up the smallest part of a secret, and the rest is no longer in your power.
Let the dead rest.
Rest comes from unrest, and unrest from rest.
There's no rest for the wicked.
Don't rest your eyes beyond what is your own.
The rest of the world does not know what newlyweds know.
The belly warm, the foot at rest.
A hungry wolf is not at rest.
How you make your bed, thus will you rest.
Where the body wants to rest, there the legs must carry it.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
He who would rest must work.
Who troubles others has no rest himself.
If you pull one pig by the tail all the rest squeak.
A loose tooth will not rest until it's pulled out.
Rest is the best medicine.
He who is anxious to secure the best tends to get stuck with the worst of the rest.
If you're going to rest under the sun, it's better to keep walking.
A good rest is half the job.
If a bird does not recognise a tree, it will not rest on it.
If the kernels are not finished, the jaw will not rest.
The food is half the provisions, the rest is herring and potatoes.
The bird has no nest, but a branch to rest on.
He who opens his heart for ambition, closes it for the rest.
The world will not find rest by just saying "peace.”.
A man who does no hard work will never know the value of rest.
Even the mightest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest.
We decide our affairs, then we rest them with God.
We rest our legs, but never our mouths.
Say no from the start; you will have rest.
He who cannot rest, cannot work; he who cannot let go, cannot hold on; he who cannot find footing, cannot go forward.
Those who never protect the values of their ancestors their soul will never rest peacefully.
Today is the first day of the rest of your life.
The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm.
One year of joy, another of comfort, and all rest of content.
A change is as good as a rest.
Kiss the hand of your enemy if you cannot chop it off: envy has no rest.
The soul will only be at rest when it stops hoping.
A short rest is always good.
Rest is good after the work is done.
What Manchester says today, the rest of England says tomorrow.
Rest breeds rust.
I rest, therefore I rust.
When the jest is at its best, 'twill be well to let it rest.
The English always credit the rest of us with the qualities they don't need themselves.
May you live to be a hundred - and decide then rest for yourself.
If one sheep puts his head through the gap the rest will follow.
As the master is away the workers take rest.
After work rest is sweet.
He that would live in peace and rest, must hear, and see, and say the best.
Lawsuits consume time, and money, and rest, and friends.
To get may rest on luck, to keep may rest on virtue.
Who is chasing after another must himself rest.
The snail is as sune at its rest as the swallow.
Wrong cannot rest, nor ill deed stand.
Whoever goes on foot during April and May, goes on horseback the rest of the year.
Bed rest cures a hurt leg and a sling heals a hurting arm.
He who marries on a rainy day will be happy for the rest of his life.
Success and rest don't sleep together.
A change is as good as a rest.
After dinner rest a while, after supper walk a mile.
The fertile field becomes sterile without rest.
Money and the devil know no rest.
The force which a body at rest exercises on a body in motion impinging upon it.
Nothing can exist long without occasional rest.
Not to disturb that which is at rest.
No rest for the wicked.
Passing the Rubicon.
When he arrived at the banks of the Rubicon, which divides Cisalpine Gaul from the rest of Italy ... he stopped to deliberate.... At last he cried out: "The die is cast" and immediately passed the river.
You must live cool some time, even if you'll beg the rest of your life.
The bad head does not give rest to the legs, and the cunning ass does not give rest to the legs, arms, or head.
A ring on a good woman's finger is no good without a blouse on her back.
It is a poor parish where the priest has to ring his own bells.
Like a gold ring in a pigs snout is a woman without descretion.
Hidden virtues ring like a soft bell.
All of you that intend to ring, you undertake a dangerous thing.
To sit by the ring and tell the man inside, 'knock him down.'
A golden ring can tie a man as tight as any chain.
The sword and the ring according to the hand that bears them.
Don't put too tight a ring on your finger.
If I have lost the ring I still have the fingers.
Monreale, a city without comfort, either it rains, or the wind blows, or bells ring for the dead.
Better when birds sing than where irons ring.
An ape's an ape, though he wear a gold ring.
You heard the ring, but don't know where.
When big bells ring, little ones are not heard.
Talking about bulls is not the same as facing them in the ring.
When the big bells ring, the little bells are not heard.
A handsome finger gets the ring.
An iron ring made of wood.
The ring of gold is never so red that it is not dispensed with for breads.
Better no ring, nor the ring of a rash.
Once you put on? the wedding ring you must submit to all that is necessary.
Even if a monkey wears a golden ring, it is and remains an ugly thing.
Give a thing and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring.
When they offer you a ring, hold out your finger.
He who receives the offerings let him ring the bells.
The sword and the ring according to the hand that bears them.
What is an exalted position to a low fellow but a golden ring in a swine's snout?
He has heard the clock ring, but can't find the lever.
Give a thing, and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring.
When the apple is ripe it will fall.
Bitter fruit will fall before the ripe.
When the figs are ripe all the birds want to eat.
Words in conversation are like beans, one breaks them off where they are ripe.
The patient eat ripe.
A palm tree growing in the shade will not bear ripe fruit.
A ripe melon falls by itself.
If the banana pest doesn't die it will always reach at the ripe banana.
You can tell a ripe corn by its look.
Get overripe before partly ripe.
Plantain ripe, can't green again.
Time and straw make medlars ripe.
When a durian tree is already ripe and sweet, many of the durians will fall to the ground.
Death does not take the old but the ripe.
Don't pluck the apple while it is green; when it is ripe it will fall of itself.
Eat when the meal is ready, speak when the time is ripe.
They call their aunt only when her cucumbers are ripe.
What is soon ripe is soon rotten.
Fast Ripe, Fast Rotten.
Ripe fruit falls by itself, but it does not fall into your mouth.
When bad luck chooses you as a companion, even a ripe banana can remove your teeth.
When the apple gets ripe, it's likely to fall.
A ripe pear is more likely to fall in the shit than onto the clean ground.
When the pear is ripe, it falls.
Praise the ripe field, not the green corn.
The lazy pig does not eat ripe pears.
When the pear is ripe, it falls.
Ye have a ready mouth for a ripe cherry.
When a ripe fruit sees an honest man, it drops.
When the pear is ripe it falls by itself.
He is ripe inside, like a water-melon.
Soon ripe, soon rotten.
Early ripe, early rotten.
A person who underneath the tall palm tree is best positioned to tell on which side the ripe head is.
Rice tastes good when properly cooked, and talking is good when the opportunity is ripe.
The fruits of a tree on the roadside are never eaten ripe.
When the pear is ripe, it falls.
When the pear is ripe it will drop.
An udara fruit that falls by the roadside must want to be picked up and eaten.
A man's grave is by the roadside.
Getting only a beautiful woman is like planting a vine on the roadside everyone feeds on it.
He who builds by the roadside has many masters.
He who builds by the roadside has many surveyors.
He who has a good looking wife, a castle on the river, or a vineyard on the roadside is never without war.
He who has a handsome wife, a castle on the frontier, or a vineyard on the roadside, is never without war.
The fruits of a tree on the roadside are never eaten ripe.
He who builds by the roadside has many masters.
Go in God's name–so you ride no witches.
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
The fat woman gives the sweetest ride.
If a pedestrian sees a horse he will want to ride it.
Beggars mounted ride their horses to death.
All are not princes who ride with the emperor.
Ride slower – you'll get further.
A good resolution is like an old horse, which is often saddled but rarely ridden.
When a slave mounts a camel he wants to ride on both humps.
You can't feed your donkey only when you need to ride it.
Each man must ride the road of his own fate.
We will ride that colt when he is grown to wear a saddle.
If you can't ride two horses at once, you shouldn't be in the circus.
With one child you may walk; with two you may ride; when you have three, at home you must bide.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
If God bids thee draw, he will find thee a rope; if he bids thee ride, he will find thee a horse.
It is not enough for a man to know how to ride; he must know how to fall.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to hell.
It is better to ride a donkey that carries you than a horse that throws you.
Ride an elephant to catch a grasshopper.
Ride on, but look before you.
Better ride a good horse for a year, than an ass all your life.
If wishes would bide, beggars would ride.
You cannot ride two horses with one ass.
Ride slower – get further.
You look for the horse you ride on.
It is not enough to know how to ride you must also know how to fall.
It is not enough for a man to know how to ride, he must also know how to fall.
It is not enough for a man to know how to ride, he must also know how to fall.
The canoe ride is pleasant when the paddler is skilled.
Always ride your horse in the direction it's going.
If two ride on a horse, one must ride behind.
Don't kick the horse you have to ride.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
There is nothing for which the boors pray so much to God as that the horses of the squirearchy may not die, for otherwise they would ride the boors with spurs.
The best way to learn to ride is on an old bike.
Set a beggar on a horse and he'll ride to the devil.
It's not enough to know how to ride, you must also know how to fall.
Dictators ride to and fro upon tigers which they dare not dismount.
Better ride on an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
Who hath no horse may ride on a staff.
Put a begger on horseback, and he will ride fast, or else break his neck.
Ride on the back of a mare, but on the shoulders of horses.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
Care for your horse as a friend; ride it as if it were an enemy.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death; Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the Devil.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
My father rode a camel, I shall ride a pick-up.
Cowboys ride horses.
A cowboy doesn't ride a bull for fame he rides because he loves riding.
There's muckle ado when muirland folk ride.
He does na aye ride when he saddles his horse.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
Don't draw another's bow, don't ride another's horse, don't mind another's business.
The slimming of an elephant and the losses of a rich man are not noticeable.
The rich are always complaining.
Don't take rich people as examples.
If a man from humble beginnings gets rich, he will carry his umbrella at midnight.
Like will to like, be they poor or rich.
Even the rich man's rooster lays eggs.
The rich would have to eat money if the poor did not provide food.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
Where rich people can make honest money, poor people have to steal.
Never promise a poor person, and never owe a rich one.
The rich man may wear old clothes.
When you are rich, you are hated; when you are poor, you are despised.
The reason some people are stingy is also the reason they are rich.
All ask if a man be rich, no one if he be good.
A rich man's joke is not always funny.
If you cannot become rich, be the neighbor of a rich man.
A good name is a rich inheritance.
A penny in a poor man's pocket is better than two in rich man's pocket.
A poor man who takes a rich wife has a ruler, not a wife.
A rich widow weeps in one eye and laughs with the other.
He is rich enough that wants nothing.
Rather be a slave to a rich man than the spouse of a poor man.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
The rich become deaf and the mighty blind.
The rich worry over their money, the poor over their bread.
If you borrow some chaff from the rich man you have to repay him with wheat.
If rich people could hire other people to die for them, the poor could make a wonderful living.
The rich man never dances badly.
The rich devour the poor, and the devil devours the rich and so both are devoured.
Do not run into debt with a rich man, or promise anything to a poor one.
If a rich man steals it is a mistake; if a poor man makes a mistake he has stolen.
Things that are stolen will really never make you rich.
A rich man who does not know himself is worth less than a poor man who does.
A por man with his child a rich man with his wealth.
If you turn into a dog, be sure to choose a rich family.
Deceive the rich and powerful if you will, but don't insult them.
He is rich who knows when he has enough.
If a woman gets rich she changes into a man.
The poor man and the rich man do not play together.
One cannot both feast and become rich.
The poor ones give their alms in a humble way, the rich man throws them down with contempt.
The poor can only guess at what wealth is; the rich don't know what poverty means.
Covetous men's chests are rich, not they.
When you are rich, you are hated; when you are poor, you are despised.
It is an easy matter for a stingy man to get rich -- but what's the use?
The rich get richer, and the poor get babies.
A snow year, a rich year.
All work and no play makes Jack filthy rich.
He that will be rich before night, may be hanged before noon.
Poor men go to heaven as soon as rich.
Avarice hoards itself poor; charity gives itself rich.
When a man is rich, he begins to save.
Charity gives itself rich; covetousness hoards itself poor.
Honesty maketh rich, but she works slowly.
Only the rich can afford compassion.
He who eats and drinks with the rich leaves the table hungry.
May God strike the rich man blind by his own gold.
If a rich man ate a snake, they would say it was because of his wisdom.
Be sure not to owe anything to the rich, and don't lend anything to the poor.
Go to your rich friend's house when invited; to your poor friend's without invitation.
A doctor will take care of the rich man; the poor man is cured with work.
The rich man gets his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter.
He who does kind deeds becomes rich.
The rich eat when they want, the poor when they can.
The person who enjoys good health is rich, even if he doesn't know it.
Poor men do penance for rich men's sins.
He that never fails never grows rich.
A proud pauper and a rich miser are contemptible beings.
He is rich enough who does not want.
If you would be rich in a year, you may be hanged in six months.
Make me a prophet and I will make you rich.
The poor is hated by his neighbour, but the rich hath many friends.
The rich never have to seek out their relatives.
To become rich in this world, it needs only to turn one's back on God.
When a man is not a lover in his twenties, not strong in his thirties, not rich in his forties and not wise in his fifties he will never be so.
The rich man carries God in his pocket, the poor man in his heart.
Rich is he who has no debts, fortunate he who lives without handicap.
Greed keeps men forever poor, even the abundance of this world will not make them rich.
He is rich who owes nothing.
The devil gives even rich men presents.
The rich man makes mistakes and the poor men get the blame.
Beetles that roll balls out of human faeces demand to be hidden away from the rich man, because there is nothing he wouldn't buy.
When a woman cannot have good palm-nuts to give her rich oil, she still has to maintain decency in order to remain one of those that sell good quality oil.
The law is not made for the rich.
Beggar beg from beggar him nebber get rich.
When death comes, the rich man has no money and the poor man no debt.
A man who has learned much is rich.
Never wrestle with a strong man nor bring a rich man to court.
All roads lead to Rome.
All roads lead to Rome.
All roads do not lead to rome.
If you want to travel fast use the old roads.
All roads lead to Rome.
Hearts do not meet one another like roads.
All roads lead to Beijing.
Various are the roads to fame.
Many are the roads that do not lead to the heart.
Some roads aren't meant to be travelled alone.
Beautiful roads never go far.
Money can build roads in the sea.
There are three bad neighbours: great rivers, great lords, and great roads.
All roads lead to Rome.
There are many roads to Rome.
All roads lead to Rom.
The dog has four feet, but he does not walk in four roads at the same time.
All roads lead to Rome.
The good ways are many. There are many right ways of doing things. All roads lead to Rome.
All roads lead to Rome.
Do not laugh at the fallen; you may find slippery roads ahead.
Many are the roads that do not lead to the heart.
He knows the roads by which he has escaped before.
A thief does not like to be robbed.
Rob Peter to Pay Paul.
No road is safer than the one just robbed.
Jaybird don't rob his own nest.
The jay bird don't rob his own nest.
By filling one's head instead of one's pocket, one cannot be robbed.
A man who smiles when he's been robbed has stolen something from the thief.
One thief will not rob another.
Rather go rob with good men than pray with bad.
Who robs commits a sin, who is robbed commits a hundred.
Rob not, repent not.
To rob a robber is not robbing.
A wise fox will never rob his neighbour's hen roost.
To take ambition from a soldier, is to rob him of his spurs.
A man has often cut a rod to beat himself.
Beaten with his own rod.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
An iron rod bends while it is hot.
If advice will not improve him, neither will the rod.
Better the rod that bends than one that breaks.
He who slanders his neighbor makes a rod for his own back.
Perseverance can reduce an iron rod to a sewing needle.
An iron rod can be ground down to become a needle.
Making a rod for your own back.
The dearer the child, the sharper must be the rod.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
It is not the hook or the rod, but the bait that lures.
He who spares the rod hates his son.
A nod for a wise man, and a rod for a fool.
He makes a rod for his own back. (14th century)
The shepherd of a herd of toads must be very patient with his rod.
A nod for a wise man, and a rod for a fool.
It is the bait that lures, not the fisherman or the rod.
A thief is a rogue but the one who repays is a gentleman.
No rogue like the godly rogue.
If thoughts were legal witnesses, many an honest man would be proved a rogue.
The fox changes his skin, but keeps the rogue.
She would drink the cream and say the cat she had was an old rogue.
If a rogue deceives me once, shame on him. If he deceives me twice, shame on me.
Never call a Kerry man a fool until you're sure he's not a rogue.
Beat the rogue and he will be your friend.
A thread will tie an honest man better than a chain a rogue.
Sharing a secret with a rogue is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
He that cheateth in small things is a fool, but in great things is a rogue.
Give a rogue an inch, and he will take an ell.
A sly rogue is often in good dress.
To a rogue a rogue and a half.
Take down a rogue from the gallows and he will hang you up.
Nothing is more like an honest man than a rogue.
A rich man is either a rogue or a rogue's heir.
A rogue says "yes” to what a rogue says.
Do not roll up your trousers before reaching the stream.
Beetles that roll balls out of human faeces demand to be hidden away from the rich man, because there is nothing he wouldn't buy.
When storms roll in, dogs make beds.
Roll me, don't curse me, said the stone to the ploughman.
Let it roll; it will right itself.
A man who will go mad next year starts to roll up his sleeves this year.
A single roll of taro top is delicious if seasoned with affection.
When out to kill a fly, don't roll out a cannon to accomplish it.
Money is round, it must roll.
That fair face will as years roll on lose its beauty, and old age will bring its wrinkles to the brow.
When you buy beef, you buy bones; when you buy land, you buy rocks.
Envy sees the sea but not the rocks.
Rocks need no protection from the rain.
Gifts break rocks and melt hearts.
If your house is of glass, don't throw rocks at others.
Don't throw rocks if you live in a house of glass.
Gifts break rocks.
A sailor must have his eye trained to the rocks and sands as well as the north star.
You don't throw rocks at a green mango.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the nation and its destiny.
Gifts dissolve rocks.
The ship that will not obey the helm will have to obey the rocks.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
Water flows, rocks remain.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks, but a farmer dies of old age.
When the Frenchman sleeps the devil rocks him.
Gifts break rocks.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
A rolling stone gathers no moss, but it gets a great shine.
Good luck comes in slender currents, misfortune in a rolling tides.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
If not by washing, then by rolling.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
It is easy to set a cask a rolling.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
It is easy to set a cask a rolling. [To influence a fool.].
Eat when the food is ready; speak when the time is right.
The words of the elders do not lock all the doors, they leave the right door open.
Hard work is the right hand of fate.
A tear at the right moment is better than a misplaced smile.
If the heart is right, the head cannot be very far wrong.
If the family is together, the soul is in the right place.
Men have three ears: one on the left of the head, one on the right of the head, and one in the heart.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
May you have a lawsuit in which you know you are in the right.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than a stone thrown at the wrong time.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than gold given at the wrong time.
No one is always right.
No one is hurt by doing the right thing.
Might is right.
Death is not found behind mountains but right behind our shoulders.
When in doubt of what is right, consult your pillow overnight.
The insane are told they're right.
Who has not done any evil act, his or her heart may be found right.
When you bump into someone, begging your pardon doesn't put it right.
To be a fool at the right time is also an art.
Does the left hand chop off the right?
If the left hand battles the right, who wins?
He who is always right will never get round the world.
The left hand washes the right and the right washes the left.
Clapping with the right hand only will not produce a noise.
The right answer to a fool is silence.
I have never seen anyone go astray who followed along the right way.
If you keep your head and heart going in the right direction you don't have to worry about your feet.
When there is a misunderstanding between the left leg and right leg the entire body falls down.
Fate can be taken by the horns, like a goat, and pushed in the right direction.
The customer's always right.
It is better to be right than in the majority.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.
The customer is always right.
The person who predicts the future is lying, even when he is right.
A poor man would like to have some fun, but he cannot find the right place.
To know the law and do the right are two things.
A handful of might is better than a sack full of right.
Who cannot fight, wins nought by right.
Revenge converts a little right into a great wrong.
A hundred years of wrong do not make an hour of right.
Keep well with your neighbors, whether right or wrong.
Who bows to might loses his right.
Where there's no might there's no right.
Even a clock that is not going is right twice a day.
Even a clock that does not work is right twice a day.
The right balance depends on the weigher.
He that is always right is always wrong.
The right hand is slave to the left.
The right man comes at the right time.
Who is in the right fears, who is in the wrong hopes.
A promise is a nice word, if kept then it is all right.
Where right has no power - there power likes to be.
A spacious ground is the right place to demonstrate one's skill in wrestling.
Seven women in their right senses are surpassed by a mad man.
There is no wind that blows right for the sailor who doesn't know where the harbor is.
Goes in the left ear, goes out the right ear.
Let not your left hand see what your right hand does.
A person peeing right against a wall most certainly has an adam's apple.
War does not determine who is right, only who is remaining.
Being someones right hand.
Good right needs good help.
They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove they are right.
If you don't have time to do it right you must have time to do it over.
One does not sharpen the axes after the right time; after the time they are needed.
Fedot, yet not the right one.
The peasant sweats and the nobleman is always right.
There is no right way to do a wrong thing.
A person who talks a lot is bound to be right sometimes.
Entreaty and right do the deed.
A person who talks a lot is sometimes right.
He is always right who suspects that he is always wrong.
His tongue says little, but powerful is his right arm.
Do right and fear no man.
The victor is always right.
If a person is away, his right is away.
A lying tongue had bereft him of life, and all without reason of right.
Tasty food, plenty of food, food in the right time – and peace at mealtimes.
The well trodden path is not always the right path.
The tail of the cow watches to the right and left.
A gentle breeze blowing in the right direction is better than a pair of strong oars.
Cockroach ain't had no right in fowl cock company.
Fowl cock en got nuh right in bulldog fight.
Cockroach ain't have nuh right at hen party.
A genius is he who is first to be right.
Who gets lost in the forest takes it out on who leads him back to the right road.
Whether you think you can or think you can't, you're right.
There are three things which if one does not know, one cannot live long in the world: what is too much for one, what is too little for one, and what is just right for one.
You may well have caught a bird, but have you a fire to roast it on?
Govern a country as you would roast a crocodile on a spit.
Big boast, small roast.
He gives him roast meat and beats him with the spit.
Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat.
An onion shared with a friend tastes like roast lamb.
It's easy to say "may allah roast the lion's mother,” when the lion isn't there.
So not roast all your corn in the winter.
Do not roast baobab kernels and leave those who have teeth chewing.
There is no feast till a roast and no torment till a marriage.
Great smoke, little roast.
Much smoke, and little roast.
A cat that licks the spit is not to be trusted with roast meat.
Many a one leaves the roast who afterwards longs for the smoke of it.
Roast geese don't come flying into your mouth.
Roast pigeons don't fly through the air.
Great boast. little roast.
A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in.
When a woman is hungry, she says, "Roast something for the children that they may eat."
A patient woman can roast an ox with a lantern.
Great boast, small roast.
Man who waits for roast duck to fly into mouth must wait very, very long time.
"o what we must suffer for the sake of God's church!” said the abbot, when the roast fowl burned his fingers.
The goose-pan is above the roast.
You cannot roast corn with two eyes.
When the kitchenmaids are together the roast burns.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat.
You can't fare well, but you must cry roast meat.
It is not a feast till the roast, and there are no galling trials till marriage.
Who invited you to the roast.
Study without reflection is a waste of time; reflection without study is dangerous.
Woman, impromptu; man, on reflection.
Women are wise impromptu, fools on reflection.
Obeisance to the self that is a reflection of eternal reality.
If you see in your wine the reflection of a person not in your range of vision, don't drink it.
Mistaking the reflection of a bow in a cup for a snake.
As soon as you question someone's integrity, it is a reflection of your own.
A reflection does not see itself.
Silence and reflection cause no dejection.
By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.
An egg does not fight a rock.
It is a thief that can trace the footsteps of another thief on a rock.
You can't squeeze blood from a rock.
Soft water on hard rock, beats so much that it perforates it.
Water can wear away even the hardest rock.
Even as a solid rock is unshaken by the wind, so are the wise unshaken by praise or blame.
A mad man drops a rock into water well, so that thousand wise men can not take it out.
Better to have a diamond with a few small flaws than a rock that is perfect.
Who will not be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock.
When you have touched a woman, you have struck a rock.
Constant dripping wears away the rock.
Man is harder than rock and more fragile than an egg.
The goat that climbs up the rock also has to go down.
Every rock strikes the feet of the poor.
A rock in the middle of the sea is never afraid of the rain.
United we are a rock, divided we are sand.
If a bird bills the rock then it trusts its beck.
If you rock the cradle empty, then you shall have babies plenty.
Every rock strikes the feet of the poor.
Caught between a rock and a hard place.
A rock offered by a friend is like an apple.
Love is the rock of youth and the shoal of old age.
Who won't be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock.
It's difficult to press oil out of a rock.
Hard as a rock.
He's small but he's a rock.
I have another tow on my rock.
When one is taking a chicken from its roost, the hen is bound to attack with at least its claws.
Curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
If the building of a nest were easy, would the little "apatipers" bird roost in the fork of a tree?
Rule the roost.
Curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
Chickens have come home to roost.
Curses like chickens come home to roost.
Curses are like young chickens, And still come home to roost.
Curses are like chickens; they come home to roost.
A wise fox will never rob his neighbour's hen roost.
The chickens have come home to roost. You're suffering the consequences now.
Curses are like young chickens,
And still come home to roost!
A bird cannot roost but on one branch.
curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
The highest branch is not the safest roost.
he keeps her/his face red with slaps.
Don't be afraid of the chili pepper, even though it's so red.
A monkey makes fun of the red behinds of his fellow monkeys.
The flowers of others are red.
Every one hates the red ant on a kola nut because he cannot eat or sell it.
He who stays near vermilion gets stained red; he who stays near ink gets stained black.
If you are hunting for a red deer then ignore the hares.
Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning.
Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head.
Trapani, red coral, Monte San Giuliano, beautiful children.
Stormy weather cannot stay all the time, the red sun will come out, too.
Dogs will red swine.
They couldn't find any reason to criticize the roses, so they complained that they were red.
A red lacquer dish needs no decoration.
There is no flower that remains red for ten days, and no power that lasts for ten years.
I'd rather be red than dead.
Neither fish, flesh nor good red herring.
They did not find a fault in the rose, they said O! you are red checked.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
Cheese and bread make the cheeks red.
Salt and bread make the cheeks red.
Red sky at night is a shepherds delight, red sky in the morning is a shepherds warning.
A red dog, a read horse, a red man - none of them are good.
A red beard and a black head, catch him with a good trick and take him dead.
Hard bread does the cheek red.
The ring of gold is never so red that it is not dispensed with for breads.
A red apple invites stones.
Red sea: good morning weather. Red mountains: water and wind.
A red sky means either water or wind; if it doesn't rain, it will be fair weather.
If you have to have animals in your house, don't have either a dog or a cat with a red coat.
A small red snuff-box is a welcome.
To-day red, to-morrow dead.
Men's skins have many colors, but human blood is always red.
There are many who throw stones at a red apple.
Of brothers-in-law and red dogs few are good.
Red sky at night shepherds delight.
Red house and a potato patch.
Red as a beet.
The sun is red at dawn and red at sunset. Great men are unchanged in prosperity and in distress.
Cowboys are stronger than two red onions.
Like a red rag to a bull.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
Earning a living is as hard as splitting the red sea.
E'ening grey and a morning red, put on your hat or ye'll weet your head; e'ening red an' a morning grey is a taiken o' a bonny day.
That put the red kite among the hens.
Knowledge has bitter roots but sweet fruits.
When the branches of trees in the forest are fighting, the roots are kissing.
We desire to bequest two things to our children–the first one is roots; the other one is wings.
To get rid of anger, first weed out the bitter roots.
Even thinking about sexual pleasure has its roots in greed.
A tree cannot stand on the ground without its roots.
Roots of evil bear bitter fruits.
Fair hair may have foul roots.
The strength of a tree lies in its roots - not in its branches.
Though a tree grows ever so high, the falling leaves return to its roots.
Roots do not know what a leaf has in mind.
A village without elderly is like a tree without roots.
A youth that does not cultivate friendship with the elderly is like a tree without roots.
A strong tree shall always grow from the roots and not the seeds.
Roots do not know what a leaf has in mind.
He is a fool who praises the fruit of a tree and forgets its roots.
When the roots of a tree begin to decay, it spreads death to the branches.
A brave man who climbs trees is food for their roots.
Learning has sour roots, but pleasant fruits.
The young rooster crows as he hears the old one.
Where there is a rooster the chicken will not crow.
If you were born lucky, even your rooster will lay eggs.
The country rooster dows not crow in the town.
The rooster said, "I shall cry but whether the sun rises God knows."
Rooster today, feather duster tomorrow.
Nine gamblers could not feed a single rooster.
A rooster does not sing on two roofs.
Where the rooster crows there is a village.
Even when there is no rooster, the morning will still start.
Bolder than a rooster.
God makes the new day with or without the rooster .
What has the rooster of Sciacca been reduced to, to be pecked by the hen.
A good rooster crows everywhere.
Every rooster crows in its own pen.
The head of the rooster that crows out of time will be cut off.
"When the rooster dies must the hen begin to sing", said the widow.
Full stomach, hard rooster.
When the rooster crows off the hour, don't hesitate to adjust the time.
Hens keep quiet when the rooster is around.
Woe to the house where the hen crows and the rooster is still.
He who stores, albeit being hungry, the rat will eat.
You set the trap when the rat has gone.
An old rat easily finds a hole.
To a good cat a good rat.
A woman is like a rat: even if it grows up in your house, it steals from you.
When you see a rat running in a fire then what it's running away from is hotter than fire.
The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught.
The rat which has but one hole is soon caught.
The rat does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful.
A rat is not born a rabbit.
The cat and the rat never thought alike.
The rat knows full well that, if the cat is old and feeble, its claws are not.
It's because the rat knows what he does at night that he doesn't go out during day.
When rat like fi romp ‘roun' puss jaw, one diay ‘im gwine en up inna puss craw.
Rat belly full, potato have skin.
It is the snake that smells the rat.
An old rat won't go into the trap.
And old rat is a brave rat.
The witness of a rat is another rat.
The rat who only knows about one hole will soon be caught by the cat.
Each rat with its own whisker.
A rat who gnaws at a cat's tail invites destruction.
Careless rat chewing on a cat's tail: beware lightning!.
A rat stinks, but it has its own home.
A rat with many offspring always sleeps with his door open.
The way a cat walks is not the way it catches a rat.
The house rat who goes swimming with his friend the lizard will die from cold.
No matter how angry a rat may be it will be eaten by a cat.
A rat never goes near a cat's celebration venue.
How ever big a rat is, it can't threaten a cat.
Foolhardiness made the rat try to jump over the fireplace.
Drive a rat into a corner, and he'll jump at you.
Rat no dey born rabbit.
The cornered rat will lick the balls of the cat.
The rat that has but one hole is soon caught.
The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat.
The spider's web lets the rat escape and catches the fly.
The rat betrayed by his own track perishes.
The rat cannot call the cat to account.
When a rat swims with a frog, it dies of cold.
Not having all of them in a row.
Too much discussion will lead to a row.
Everyone must row with the oars they have.
Nodding the head does not row the boat.
No.1 is the first house in the row.
Every one must row with the oars he has.
If there is no wind, row.
Too many hands will row the boat up a mountain.
Let him stay at the oar who has learnt to row.
Pray to God but continue to row to the shore.
Let him take the oars who has learned to row.
Don't sail out farther than you can row back.
You must row the boat you're in.
If you've brought the devil aboard, you'll have to row him ashore.
The deil made souters sailors that can neither steer nor row.
It is good rowing with set sail.
Rowing with the oars you posess.
A boat doesn't go forward if each one is rowing their own way.
A rowing stane gathers nae fog.
If only the wind would turn before I go home, said the woman rowing against the wind.
It is not the nodding of heads that does the rowing.
Long sleep makes hot rowing.
Pray to God, but keep on rowing to the shore.
Pray to God, but continue rowing towards the shore.
No one tests the depth of a river with both feet.
You cannot cross a river without getting wet.
The river is my brother for it carries my canoe.
Negotiate a river by following its bends, enter a country by following its customs.
Let your love be like the misty rain, coming softly, but flooding the river.
Listen to the sound of the river and you will get a trout.
As the wise man looks for a bridge the fool crosses the river.
You can never enter the same river twice.
If you live in the river you should make friends with the crocodile.
Sit on the bank of a river and wait: Your enemy's corpse will soon float by.
A great river does not refuse any small streams.
Do not insult the mother alligator until after you have crossed the river.
There's a crocodile in every big river.
The horse went into the river.
A thrashing river is a fisherman's bounty.
The water of the river flows on without waiting for the thirsty man.
Those who get to the river early drink the cleanest water.
If the river sounds, it's because it has water.
Do not change horses in the middle of the river.
No matter how full the river, it still wants to swell more.
Cross the loud river but don't cross the silent one.
When the king reigns it is thanks to the people; when a river sings it's thanks to the stones.
Do not kick away the canoe which helped you to cross the river.
When you are crossing over a river you might be eaten by crocodiles, but don't let yourself get bitten by the little fish.
Any visitor to the country who drinks from the river bengo will never want to leave.
If you sit by the river long enough, you will see the body of your enemy float by.
If you come near the river, you will hear the crab cough.
You must have crossed the river before you may tell the crocodile he has bad breath.
Whoever crossed the river at the fordable point, knows how deep the river is.
A river is made drop by drop.
The river won't get dirty just by the dog's bark.
A river is not contaminated by having a dog drink from it.
Those who have not crossed the river yet should not laugh at those who are drowning.
No matter how tough the current of a river may be it is the calabash that triumphal over the river.
Only a fool tests the depth of a river with both feet.
If the fish comes out of the river to tell you that the crocodile has one eye, you should believe it.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
Although shrimps may dance around, they do not leave the river.
A Single hand cannot wash itself even in the Danube river.
The Sea has decided to drown itself in the river.
In a piranha infested river, monkeys drink water using a straw.
Do not push the river, it will flow by itself.
Follow the river and you will get to the sea.
It's easy to throw something into the river but hard to get it out again.
At a great river be the last to pass.
He got out of the mud and fell into the river.
The river does not swell with clear water.
Don't undo your bootlaces until you have seen the river.
The man is a river, the woman a lake.
A man who lives on the bank of a river does not use spittle to wash his hands.
The frog's pee adds to the river.
Time runs like the river current.
Doesn't paddle, but puts his feet in the river.
When the river is filled, Be quick to fetch some into your bucket.
Woe is he whose meal is in the river.
It is easier to dam a river than to stop the flow of gossip.
A stone that gathers no moss will be washed away by the river.
To rule the mountains is to rule the river.
The river is flat but the banks are steep.
A thousand years hence the river will run as it did.
Flying from the bull he fell into the river.
It is easy to tempt a frog to the river.
The same water never runs into the same river.
Only when the last tree has withered, and the last fish caught, and the last river been poisoned, will we realize we cannot eat money.
When the last tree has been cut down, the last river has been polluted and the last fish has been caught -- only then do you realize that money can't buy everything.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
The riverside monkey is apt to be blamed for every twig found in the river.
One man cut the barrage, and a thousand people fell into the river.
I travel the river of blood.
They who drink the water from the Manangareza river always come back to Madagascar.
Let your love be like the misty rains, coming softly, but flooding the river.
He who goes to Our Lady of Muxima with an evil heart risks being drowned crossing the river to get there.
Love is a crocodile in the river of desire.
The water from the river becomes salty when it reaches the ocean.
Hunger makes the big fish come out of hiding in the great river.
The wisdom of the elderly is like the sun, it illuminates the village and the great river.
Don't just cross a river -- cross it bearing fire!
Eyes can see widely: they can cross a river in full flood.
The river swells from the little streams.
The river swells with the contribution of the small streams.
You can see the source of a river, but not that of a clan.
Don't call the alligator a big-mouth till you have crossed the river.
Once the last tree is cut and the last river poisoned, you will find you cannot eat your money.
When the crocodile says that the river crossing is deep you must believe it.
You can make a mule cross the river but you cant make him drink the water.
If you find the river flooded, wait.
Only when you have crossed the river, can you say the crocodile has a lump on his snout.
No one tests the depth of the river with both feet.
A buddha made of mud crossing a river cannot protect even himself.
All roads lead to Rome.
When in Rome do as the Romans do.
All roads lead to Rome.
Rome and pavia weren't built in a day.
All roads do not lead to rome.
All roads lead to Rome.
An ass in Germany is a professor in Rome.
If there be a hell, Rome is built over it.
Offend one monk, and the lappets of all cowls will flutter as far as Rome.
He who has a tongue, may go to Rome.
Where the Pope is there is Rome.
Every road does not lead to rome.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving with the Pope.
At rome do as rome does.
When you are at Rome do as Rome does.
Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving against the Pope.
At Rome one must do the Romans do.
A donkey in saxony is a professor in rome.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
Rome wasn't built in one day.
Wealth conquered Rome after Rome had conquered the world.
Step by step one goes to Rome.
The court of Rome likes not sheep without wool.
There are many roads to Rome.
Who goes to Rome a beast returns a beast.
Better be first in a village than second at Rome.
A man may speir the gate to Rome.
Rome was not bigged on the first Day.
Ye may not sit in Rome, and strive with the Pope.
When in Rome, do as the Romans.
If you live in Rome, don't quarrel with the Pope.
He who wishes to live at Rome must not quarrel with the pope.
All roads lead to Rome.
Every road leads to Rome.
The good ways are many. There are many right ways of doing things. All roads lead to Rome.
All roads lead to Rome.
He who has a mouth, goes to Rome.
It is hard to live in Rome and strive against the Pope.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
Every road leads to Rome.
All roads do not lead to Rome.
If you are in Rome, live in the Roman way, if you are somewhere else, live like there. (attributed to Ambrose of Milan)
It is inevitable that two thighs will rub against each other.
Scandal will rub out like dirt when it is dry.
Never rub your eye but with your elbow.
The hunter does not rub himself in oil and lie by the fire to sleep.
A pig that is used to wallowing in the mud looks for a clean person to rub against.
Iron may be rubbed so long that it gets heated.
One should never rub bottoms with a porcupine.
Never rub your eye with anything but your elbow.
Here lies the rub.
One should never rub bottoms with a porcupine.
Goodwill makes the road shorter.
She is like a road - pretty, but crooked.
Two shorten the road.
The road to Heaven is well signposted, but it is badly lit at night.
Follow the road and you will reach an inn.
No one was ever lost on a straight road.
If you don't know where you are, any road will do.
No matter how far you have gone on a wrong road, turn back.
Good company on the road is the shortest cut.
Walk your own road and bear your own load.
The road to hell is strewn with roses.
Don't reject the crooked road and don't take the straight one, instead take the one traveled by the ancestors.
The person who recognizes his major mistakes is on the road to wisdom.
The mysterious road beckons the young man.
The eye will often wander the road that love has taught.
Rising early makes the road short.
With gold you can make a road to heaven but it will end in hell.
Unless you know the road you've come down, you won't know where you are going.
Each man must ride the road of his own fate.
On a steep road, let your horse set the pace.
On an uphill road, give your horse his reins.
A merry companion on the road is as good as a nag.
To know the road ahead, ask those coming back.
If you want to find out about the road ahead, then ask about it from those coming back.
However tall the mountain is, there's a road to the top of it.
If you don't know where your going to then any road will take you where you're going.
No matter how long and winding the road might be, it will always lead you to your destination.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Choose your neighbor before your house and your companion before the road.
What good is it to run when you're on the wrong road?
Between wording and working is a long road.
The road to ruin is paved with good intentions.
To spend much and gain little is the sure road to ruin.
It is a long road that has no turning.
The longest road has an end and the straightest road has an end.
The pig in the sty doesn't know the pig going along the road.
He keeps his road well enough who gets rid of bad company.
Don't leave the main road for a shortcut.
Go softly at bad bits of road.
He who knows the road can ride full trot.
The straight road is the best.
Every road does not lead to rome.
With money you can build a road in the sea.
On the road between the homes of friends, grass does not grow.
When you go, the road is rough; when you return, smooth.
An angel on the road, a devil at the fireplace.
The hungry belly and the full belly do not walk the same road.
To see a friend no road is too long.
The cart ruins the road, the woman the man, the water the wine.
One road for the fugitive and a hundred for the pursuer.
The church is near but the road is icy; the bar is far away but I'll walk carefully.
There is no royal road to learning.
When you are on the road speak not ill of your enemy.
An udara fruit that falls on the side of the road is asking to be eaten.
The riskier the road, the greater the profit.
The wind sweeps the road clean.
The youth walks faster than the elderly but the elderly knows the road.
When the road is long, even slippers feel tight.
You cannot be lost on a road that is straight.
The road to success is lined with many tempting parking spaces.
It is better to walk than curse the road.
Good looking and good luck don't always walk the same road.
You cannot teach the old gorilla the road.
The hard road turns the traveller into the same dust that he has to swallow.
Heaven has a road, but no one travels it; Hell has no gate but men will dig to get there.
A good dog does not block the road.
The main road is an easy way, but everyone loves the side streets.
If one comes to a fork of the road in a strange country, she stops to think.
The person to whom things are brought does not know the length of the road.
The road to success is always under construction.
Those who respect the elderly pave their own road toward success.
The road to ruin is kept in good repair, and the travellers pay the expense.
The road to the head lies through the heart.
The downward road is easy.
It is a man's challenge to go as far as he can on the right road.
The other side of the road always looks cleanest.
There is no royal road to learning.
If you stop every time a dog barks, your road will never end.
The road to heaven is equally short, where'er we die.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The longest road out is the shortest road home.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Short is the road that leads from fear to hatred.
Failures are but mileposts on the road to success.
No grass grows on a beaten road.
In a place where there is will, there is a road.
He has passed the road to Damascus.
Better to return from half-way than to take a wrong road.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
It is difficult to catch a black cat in a dark room - especially if the cat isn't there.
If you think you're too small to be noticed go and sleep in a room which is full of mosquitoes.
There is not enough room for two elephants to sit in the same shade.
A bad broom leaves a dirty room.
If there is room in your heart there is room in your house.
When there is room in the heart, there is room in the house.
Between a woman's "Yes” and "No” there is no room for the point of a needle.
In baiting a mousetrap with cheese, always leave room for the mouse.
There is no room for two kings in one castle.
If you go only once round the room, you are wiser than he who sits still.
Eternity makes room for a salty cucumber.
In a quarrel, leave room for reconciliation.
Give me a seat, and I will make myself room to lie down.
Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling.
A small house is enough room for a thousand friends.
When there are two fires in one room, only one will smoke.
Always leave a little room for a mistake.
The one who sleeps in his room knows where it is leaking.
If you're filled with pride then you will not have room for wisdom.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
A house without books is like a room without windows.
There is always room at the top.
In time of war the devil makes more room in hell.
The empty wagon must make room for the full one.
Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling.
The room and the stove are one item.
Many good people can find room in a small space.
A fair fire makes a room flet.
If a dane first has come into the room, more danes will probably follow.
There's always room for a tasty treat.
Where power reigns there is no room for reason.
The body of the pope takes up no more room than the sexton's.
If there is room in the heart, there is room for the behind.
The ceiling won't stay when the room is no longer there.
If you have ground nuts in your room expect rats.
A bad broom leaves a dirty room.
A room without books is a body without soul.
A year's care, a minute's ruin.
A man's ruin lies in his tongue.
Kyoto people ruin themselves for clothing. osaka people for food.
The ruin of a nation begins in the homes of its people.
The road to ruin is paved with good intentions.
To spend much and gain little is the sure road to ruin.
A man may be his own ruin.
A little thing can ruin the whole thing.
One glass can ruin all the beer.
To form a dog is the ruin of education.
The advice of a clever woman can ruin a strong town.
To form a dog is the ruin of education.
The road to ruin is kept in good repair, and the travellers pay the expense.
youth and void and edginess ruin men.
Trusting too much to others has been the ruin of many.
Success or ruin.
A little idleness causes the ruin of the beehive.
Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.
People are like plants in the wind: they bow down and rise up again.
The eye cannot rise above the eyebrow.
Boil the water and the scum will rise to the top.
If you lie down with a man, you may rise up as a woman.
A stream cannot rise above its source.
Rise early, live soberly, and apply yourself with industry.
In politics, a man must learn to rise above principle.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. (1639)
He who falls today. may rise tomorrow.
Let your anger set with the sun and not rise again.
May your anger set with the sun and not rise again with it.
Be kind to those that meet you as you rise, you may pass them again as you fall.
If you lie down with dogs you'll rise with fleas.
Walls sink and dunghills rise.
Chairs sink and stools rise.
Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others.
Go to bed without supper, you will rise without debt.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
If you rise too early, the dew will wet you.
Dragons often rise up on their tail.
The last partridge to rise gets the most sticks thrown at it.
Cream doesn't rise to the top, it works its way up.
He that will get the better of a fox must rise early.
Go to bed with the lamb, and rise with the lark.
Dust does not rise because a dog-flea hops.
Learn to rise up out of the enigmatic egg in the hidden land.
A leader does not rise for a squirrel.
No matter how early one awakes, the sun does not rise first.
Rise never at nighttime, except thou art spying.
It's too late to rise early when you wake eleven o'clock.
Fall six times, rise seven.
Whenever the water rises, the boat will rise too.
Unless there is opposing wind, a kite cannot rise.
Three times an early rise makes a whole day.
It is only the foolish cock that believes the sun won't rise if he doesn't crow.
It's better not to rise at all than to rise and fall.
He who lies down with dogs will rise with fleas.
You should lie down with the lamb and rise with the lark.
You will not rise to the occasion, you will default to the level of your training.
He had need rise betimes who would please everybody.
Early to rise and late to bed, lifts again the debtor's head.
Speedy rise, speedy fall.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
Rise early, and you will observe; labor and you will have.
Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas.
The higher the rise the greater the fall.
He has need rise betimes that would please everybody.
Waves will rise on silent water.
Laith to bed and laith to rise.
He who lies in the mud will rise dirty.
He must rise betimes who would please everybody.
He had need rise early who would please everybody.
To rise at six, eat at ten, sup at six, go to bed at ten, makes a man live years ten times ten.
Few people rise to our esteem upon closer scrutiny.
It is in vain for a man to rise early who has the repute of lying in bed all the morning.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
He who would cheat the fox must rise early.
See how he has risen from a mayor to a hangman.
Rise early and watch, labour and catch.
Who lies with dogs shall rise up with fleas.
Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas.
To rise with the lark, and go to bed with the lamb.
Truth and oil always rise above.
Rise early, live soberly, and apply yourself with industry.
No friendship is strong that owes its rise to a pot. Недолговечна дружба, возникшая за обе денным столом.
Go to bed with lamb and rise with the lark.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
They that lie dawn far love should rise up for hunger.
Waves will rise on silent water.
Patience is a tree whose root is bitter, but its fruit is very sweet.
There is an excess of familiarity at the root of all hostility.
The love of evil is the root of all money.
Money is the root of all evil.
Sin is the root of much sorrow.
Labour has a bitter root, but a sweet taste.
Idleness is the root of all evil.
A clever pig extracts a deep root.
A silent pig digs the deepest root.
Not every sweet root gives birth to sweet grass.
You cannot loosen a man's tongue with root beer.
To forget one's ancestors is to be a brook without a source, a tree without a root.
Fallen leaves return to the root.
The lotus root may be severed, but its fibered threads are still connected.
A white tooth has a bloody root.
Avarice is the root of all evil.
Let's face the facts and get at the root of trouble.
No root, no fruit.
Money is the root of all evil.
Where malice has taken root, friendship can never be formed.
God puts a good root in the little pig's way.
A pear will fall to its root.
Money is the root of all evil.
A pear will fall to the root of the tree.
Money makes the world go round.
You can't build a barrel round a bung hole.
At a round table there is no dispute about place.
A round egg can be made square according to how you cut it; words would be harsh according to how you speak them.
Just as a bamboo cane forms a round jet of water, so taking counsel together makes men of one mind.
He who is always right will never get round the world.
You can't fit a round peg in a square hole.
Better go round than be drowned.
Round like a lime.
Fortune is round; it makes one a king, another a dunghill.
Love makes the world go round.
A liar can go round the world but cannot come back.
At every door-way, ere one enters, one should spy round.
A kola nut is small, but it is more important that it goes round to each person and not that it fills the stomach.
Who busies himself where no profit is found remains a fool the whole year round.
Falsehood never tires of going round about.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about.
He goes about it like a cat round hot milk.
Money is round, and rolls.
The longest way round is the shortest way home.
When a wolf is mentioned, he is already walking round the garden.
Where pig is proffered, go round with a sack.
The king lies doun, yet the warld rins round.
Coins are round and come and go.
The wheel turns round.
Money is round, so it rolls away.
Money is round, it must roll.
It is the master-wheel that makes the mill go round.
The world is a round gulf, and he who cannot swim must go to the bottom.
The wolf dances round the well.
Short cuts are long ways round.
The news has gone round and round, yet the person it concerns is deaf.
Love makes the world go round.
Cowboys don't walk round calling themselves cowboys.
Cowboys don't go around breaking hearts.
Lies and Latin go round the world.
Rejoice not at thine enemy's fall”–but don't rush to pick his up, either.
If you rush things, you'll just make others laugh.
Those who rush things too much, without reflection, can be surpassed by those who take their time.
A book whos sale's forbidden all men rush to see, and prohibition turns one reader into three.
A strong person doesn't rush to wake up early morning.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
He seeks a knot even on the rush.
Kindred without friends, friends without power, power without will, will without effect, effect without profit, profit without virtue, is not worth a rush.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Don't rush in the rapids, is the rule of old Lapland.
He who took the donkey up to the roof should bring it down.
The larger a man's roof, the more snow it collects.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a cock on the roof.
When the vine entwines your roof, it is time to cut it down.
The elephant will reach to the roof of the house.
Rain does not fall on one roof alone.
He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at his neighbour's.
A lie is like a jump from a high roof.
A widow, like a widower, is a house without a roof.
The rain falls on only one roof.
The rain does not all fall on one roof.
Life? That is a candle in the wind; frost upon a roof; the twitching of the fish in a pan.
He ran out from under a leaking roof and sat in the rain.
The house roof fights the rain, but the person who is sheltered ignores it.
Put out the fire betimes, ere it reach the roof.
The day of the storm is not the time for thatching your roof.
Hell's roof is made from lost causes.
Better to fall from the window than the roof.
The blessing of having many children has never broken a man's roof.
He who lives in the attic knows where the roof leaks.
The house roof fights the rain, but he who is sheltered ignores it.
Eat in a house then excrete on the roof.
An empty barn needs no roof.
There may be snow on the roof, but there's fire in the belly.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a pigeon on the roof.
He is not wise who places a stones on his own roof.
Three things drive a man outdoors; smoke, a leaking roof and a scolding wife.
The owner of the house knows where his roof leaks.
Running on the roof finishes at the edge.
Love for a person must extend to the crows on his roof.
Pouring water from above the roof of a tall building.
Thatch your roof before rainy weather, dig your well before you become parched with thirst.
Rain does not fall on one roof alone.
Compromise makes a good umbrella but a poor roof.
He is the sunshine at the edge of the roof.
One bird in the hand is better than two on the roof.
He who has a glass roof on his own house, must not throw stones at others.
One bird in your hand is better than ten on the roof.
Were he to throw a groat on the roof, it would come down a dollar.
Right or wrong, our house up to the roof.
There is a tile on the roof.
Better sparrow in the hand than pigeon on the roof.
The husband who lacks affection is like a house that lacks a roof.
The interested friend is a swallow on the roof.
The craftsman has a bad roof.
Better to have one bird in hand than ten on the roof.
Seven cities warred for Homer being dead, Who living had no roof to shrowd his head.
Thatch your roof before rainy weather.
He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at others.
Do not take the thatch from your own roof to buy slates for another man's house.
May the roof above us never fall in.

And may the friends gathered below it never fall out.
A child is a blessing for any man's roof.
"if I rest, I rust,” says the key.
A wheel that turns gathers no rust.
Old love does not rust.
Old rust is for the stranger.
When I rest, I rust.
Unused iron is ruined by rust.
Old love does not rust.
Trouble is to man what rust is to iron.
Iron that works does not rust.
The tongue of a woman is the sword that is never allowed to rust.
It is better to wear out than to rust out.
Rust consumes iron and envy consumes itself.
Rest breeds rust.
I rest, therefore I rust.
Rust cannot do any harm to gold.
Rust eats up iron.
sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears.
Better to wear out than rust out.
A woman's tongue is her sword, and she does not let it rust.
Sunday clears away the rust of the whole week. (Joseph Addison)
There's no iron so hard that rust won't fret it; and there's no cloth so fine that moths won't eat it.
The world is a rose: smell it and pass it on to your friends.
He who want a rose must respect the thorn.
Only the nightingale understands the rose.
Every rose has a thorn as its friend.
For the sake of a single rose, the gardener becomes servant to a thousand thorns.
The rose is a friend of the thorn.
From a thorn comes a rose, and from a rose comes a thorn.
The smile of a rose uplifts the nightingale.
There is no rose without thorns.
Pretty rose got macca jook.
If your heart is a rose, then your mouth will speak perfumed words.
A rose too often smelled loses its fragrance.
The bud becomes a rose and the rose a hip.
We will water the thorn for the sake of the rose.
The splendor of the rose of sharon is but a day.
A thorn defends the rose, harming only those who would steal the blossom.
The rose has thorns only for those who would gather it.
The scent of a rose will always stay on the hand of the giver.
For the sake of the rose the thorn is watered too.
Beauty without virtue is a rose without fragrance.
No rose without a thorn.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present; a kiss to greet the future.
Beauty without honesty is like a rose without perfume.
Beauty without virtue is like a rose without scent.
However long the sun shines upon a thistle, it will never become a rose.
No house without a mouse, no barn without corn, no rose without a thorn.
Pluck the rose and leave the thorns.
No rose without a thorn.
Every rose has its thorn.
No rose without a thorn.
The fairest rose at last is withered.
A woman without love is like a rose without a scent.
No rose without a thorn.
Io get what we want, we must accept some things we don't want. No rose without a thorn.
No rose without a thorn, or a love without a rival.
Man is harder than iron, stronger than stone and more fragile than a rose.
The faded rose No suitor knows.
Seek not the rose which is once lost.
Revolutions are not made with rose water.
An onion will not produce a rose.
You are comparing a rose to an anemone.
Every rose has its thorn.
No rose, but a flower after all.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present.
Never mind ugly buddy I'm not a rose either.
Every rose has its thorn.
A rose is a rose is a rose.
The exception proves the rule.
If you cannot serve, you cannot rule.
Divide and rule.
Every rule has its exception.
Where two women rule a hearth-fire, the thatch may burn with the sparks flying.
Those that rule must hear and be deaf, must see and be blind.
He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind.
The king cannot always rule as he wishes.
Two things rule the world -- reward and punishment.
To rule the mountains is to rule the river.
Better rule in hell, than serve in heaven.
A rule isn't unfair if it applies to everyone.
"No rule without exception.”.
There exists no rule without exceptions.
Those who tell the stories, rule the people.
Rule: Never perform card tricks for the people you play poker with.
Where there is a herd without a bull, a castrated ox will rule.
Rule the roost.
There is an exception to every rule.
Divide and rule.
There is an exception to every rule.
Rule youth well, and eild will rule it fell.
When it is the turn of a man to become the head of a village, he does not need to diviner to tell him that he is destined to rule.
One occasion doesn't make the rule.
Better is rule than rent.
The exception proves the rule.
Submit to the rule you have yourself laid down.
It is an absurdity that he should rule others who cannot command himself.
Don't rush in the rapids, is the rule of old Lapland.
There exists no rule without exceptions.
Divide and rule.
If the cockroach wants to rule over the chicken, then it must hire the fox as a body-guard.
It is Austria's destiny to rule the world.
Those who labor with their minds rule; those who labor with their bodies are ruled.
It is easy to govern a kingdom but difficult to rule one's family.
An exception to every rule.
There is no rule without an exception.
The exception confirms the rule.
Exception strenghtens the rule...Kivétel erősíti a szabályt.
Divide and rule.
Divide and rule [or conquer]. Attributed to Julius Caesar.
You can't push on a rope.
If the rope is weak, pull gently.
Don't break down, rope; this is the last jerk.
When you chop off a snake's head all you are left with is a piece of rope.
Put a rope around your neck and many will be happy to drag you along.
If you put a rope around your neck, many people will be glad to drag you by it.
Catch the halter rope and it will lead you to the donkey.
In the hangman's house you will always find a rope.
The rope will break where it is thinnest.
Time is longer than a rope.
Bad and good are intertwined like rope.
Having been bitten by a snake, he's afraid of a rope.
The rope of a lie is short.
If God bids thee draw, he will find thee a rope; if he bids thee ride, he will find thee a horse.
Don't talk about a rope in the house of someone whose father was hung.
Never mention rope in the house of a man who has been hanged.
Time and the hour are not to be tied with a rope.
Don't pull hard enough to break the rope.
An adder with its poisonous fangs taken out is nothing more than a piece of rope.
He hauls at a long rope who expects another's death.
The rope breaks where it is thinnest.
The older the goat the tighter the rope.
Pull gently at a weak rope.
A rope which is pulled for a long time, breaks.
Time is longer than a rope.
A rope parts where it is thinnest.
A well-worn coir-rope is better than a new rope made from raffia.
Constant rubbing of a rope will cut a stone.
You can lean on a bamboo stick, but not on a rope.
Once bitten by a snake, he is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope.
It's not that the well is too deep, but rather the rope is too short.
Once bitten by a snake you feel suspicious even when you see a piece of rope.
A short rope ties nothing.
Give a man rope enough and he will hang himself.
Money for old rope.
He who has been bitten by a snake is scared of a rope on the ground.
You must be strong to pull a rope against a stronger.
You cannot pull hard with a broken rope.
One who's been bitten by a snake is afraid of a black-and-white rope.
Give a man rope enough and he will hang himself.
Who more than he is worth doth spend, he makes a rope his life to end.
He that hath been bitten by a serpent is afraid of a rope.
He, who more than he is worth doth spend, E'en makes a rope, his life to end.
Never speak of a rope in the family of one who has been hanged.
He that spends more than he is worth spins a rope for his own neck.
He who is anxious for the death of another has a long rope to pull.
With a staircase before you, you look for a rope to go down by.
Name not a rope in his house that hanged himself.
A girl draws more than a rope.
He hath not a farthing left wherewith to buy a rope to hang himself.
A triple rope is not easily broken.
You would weave a rope of sand.
You shall never want rope enough.
Name not a rope in his house who hanged himself.
Time longer dan rope.
Never talk about a rope in the house of a man who has just been hanged.
A rope parts where is thinnest.
Give a man enough rope and he'll hang himself.
He, who gives you a rope, tie him with it.
The rope that hangs a monkey, hangs a baboon as well.
He who would hang himself is sure to find a rope.
Putting a withe around sand. Compare the English "a rope of sand.”.
Feeding willow rope. - (Is lying)
Mention not a rope in the house of one whose father was hanged.
Do not talk about a rope in the house of someone whose father was hung.
The rope you pullin' no de rope I cuttin'
Among the blind, the squint rules.
Where force rules, justice does not exist.
How gently glides the married life away, When she who rules still seems but to obey.
The heart rules without rules.
Were a woman rules the house, the devil is serving-man.
Love rules his kingdom without a sword.
Peace won't settle where a woman rules.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the nation and its destiny.
Money rules the world.
Whim rules the child, and weather the field, each is open to chance.
Love rules without a sword and binds without a cord.
If you must play, decide upon three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
Rules are made to be broken.
Love rules without rules.
Love rules without law.
Custom rules the law.
The new moon of March rules for six months.
The man who builds his own throne rules over a desert.
Rules are stronger than an individual's power.
Rules were meant to be broken.
Custom rules the law.
Reason is absent, when impulse rules.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
As long as I am running my father will still have a son.
Autumn days come quickly like the running of a hound on the moor.
Running away makes you guilty.
You can outdistance that which is running after you, but not what is running inside you.
Fleeing and running are not the same thing.
The tears running down your face do not blind you.
A new servant can catch a running deer.
If you see an animal running in the early morning know that it is running away from something more scarily than the due.
When you see a rat running in a fire then what it's running away from is hotter than fire.
Twenty years a child; twenty years running wild; twenty years a mature man -- and after that, praying.
Running by one's will never gets tired.
Running water carries no poison.
Can I pull down the sun with a forked stick, or prevent it from running its course?
One can't shoe a running horse.
Running away is not glorious, but often very healthy.
A belt fastened while running will come undone while running.
Clothes put on while running come off while running.
A running man can slit a thousand throats in one night.
The turtle does not suffer when running.
Running on the roof finishes at the edge.
Virtue: climbing a hill; vice: running down.
You can out run that which is running after you but not that that's running inside of you.
He who has got experience can milk a running cow.
Do not follow a person who is running away.
From still water God keep me; from running water I will keep myself.
There is no point in running ones head against the wall.
A running horse needs no spur.
When the ox is at the slaughterhouse everyone comes running with their knives.
Who insists on running up a slope, is confused and crazy.
What is the use of running when we are on the wrong.
You can't shoe a horse while it is running.
Glory lies still; abuse is running.
Presumption first blinds a man, and then sets him a running.
Time never gets tired of running.
Do not follow a person who is running a way.
Running and buying don't go together -- running and selling do.
Life is precious, as the tailor said when running from the gander.
He wouldn't sleep where there is running water.
The water is running in the river, father drink it, mother drink it.
A man without reason is a beast in season.
Meaning: Blaming the wrong reason. Looking for a scapegoat.
If you will not hear reason, she will surely rap your knuckles.
There's no reason to walk on the branches when the trunk is so thick.
If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself.
We must convince by reason, not prescribe by tradition.
One who walks with no reason is not like one who sits without reason, the one who walks might pick up something.
If unreason comes, reason goes.
I will get it because I can, one says with a reason.
Not cheap without reason, nor dear without value.
Don't marry without love, but don't love without reason.
Reason succeeds where force fails.
He knows not the law who knows not the reason thereof.
If passion drives, let reason hold the reins.
Law governs man, and reason the law.
When the reason is known, there will be no more shock.
There is no reason for war that reasonable men can't settle.
There is reason in the roasting of eggs.
Where passion is high, reason is low.
The frog does not jump in the daytime without reason.
Reason is the wise man's guide, example the fool's.
Reason is only verbal.
Who doesn't listen to reason, can't do things with reason.
The one chased away with a club comes back, but the one chased away with reason does not.
The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.
Him whom Jove would destroy he first deprives of his reason.
They couldn't find any reason to criticize the roses, so they complained that they were red.
Drums are never beat without reason.
A lying tongue had bereft him of life, and all without reason of right.
Merit is often an obstacle to fortune; the reason is it produces two bad effects, envy and fear.
There is reason in the roasting of eggs.
Do not create in anger what you lack in reason.
Rage is not without reason.
A man does not run among thorns for no reason; either he is chasing a snake or a snake is chasing him.
There is a wise reason why a cock can't sound like a turkey.
There is a good reason why natural water never runs at night.
The one chased away with a stick comes back and the one chassed away with reason doesn't come back.
Don't undermine my silence, its got reason; don't rate it, it as got no scale.
When you persuade, speak of interest, not of reason.
Everything happens for a reason.
Custom without reason is but ancient error.
Laughing for no reason is rude.
A tear bedews my Delia's eye, From morn till dewy eve; But if you ask the reason why, She can't tell, I believe.
Reason does not come before years.
The heart has reasons that reason does not understand.
Reason lies between the bridle and the spur.
He who is his own judge never finds a reason to condemn.
It has neither rhyme nor reason.
Love is without reason.
Rage is without reason.
The old dog doesn't bark without reason.
One should watch out for a very trifling or lame reason given for something that has been done.
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
Express yourself earnestly, and you have no reason for shame even if you lack talent.
When you rely too much on reason, you end up not relying enough on feeling.
Where power reigns there is no room for reason.
Reason not with the great, 'tis a perilous gate.
Reasonings banish reason.
No good dog barks without reason.
Blaming the wrong reason/cause or creating a scapegoat.
When I was born I wept, and every day brings a reason why.
All men grieve, and if you ask them the reason why, they cannot tell it.
The plan executed, reason comes to our assistance!
All flute-players are mad; when once they begin to blow, away goes reason.
Reason does not come before years.
Logic is the cement of our civilization, with which we ascend from chaos, using reason as our guide.
If the wind comes from an empty cave, there is a reason.
Our passions are the winds that propel our vessel. Our reason is the pilot that steers her. Without winds the vessel would not move and without a pilot she would be lost.
Listen to your conviction, even if they seem absurd to your reason.
It is well to remember that there are five reasons for drinking the arrival of a friend, one's present or future thirst, the excellence of the wine, or any other reason.
Reason is only verbal.
Everything has an underlying reason.
Reason to attack: poverty.
When a man begins to reason, he ceases to feel.
Try to reason about love, and you will lose your reason.
The man has neither sense nor reason who leaves a young wife at home.
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
Reason is absent, when impulse rules.
When you are given, eat, when you are beaten, run away.
To tell the dog to catch, and the rabbit to run.
A coquettish woman is like a shadow -- as you chase her she runs away, and if you run away, she chases after you.
The deeper the waters are, the more still they run.
It is not enough to run; you must start on time.
Do not run into debt with a rich man, or promise anything to a poor one.
If the hare is your enemy, admit that he can run fast.
When the angels appear, the devils run away.
A lame man always speaks when it's time to run.
You cannot run and scratch your ass at the same time.
Don't trust the horses if they run away, or the whores if they repent.
When you run alone, you run fast. When you run together, you run far.
You do not teach a giraffe to run.
The horizon will not disappear as you run towards it.
Don't try to run before you can walk.
To run is not neccessarily to arrive.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
Five of them would run from the bang of one empty gun.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
A hero is a man who is afraid to run away.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
Beware the man who lavishes too much praise on you, he will later run you down.
The still swine eat the mash. the wind ones run past it.
What good is it to run when you're on the wrong road?
Better to go to bed supperless than run in debt.
You never miss the water till the well has run dry.
Learn to walk before you run.
Trust the virgin and don't run.
You must grease the wheels if you would have the car run.
In the long run even a dog will compromise with the cat.
Much water has run in the danube sine then.
If you run from a wolf, you may run into a bear.
Wha sweet nanny-goat a go run him belly.
Hog run fe him life, darg run fe him character.
We run t'ings, t'ings noh run we.
I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years.
Learn to creep before you run.
They are fools whose sheep run away twice.
Let God's waters run over God's acres.
When the wine is run out, you stop the leak.
Water does not run under a lying stone.
A thousand years hence the river will run as it did.
If you want to live and thrive, let the spider run alive.
To flee and to run are not all one.
Tell the truth and run.
A lion can run faster than we can, but we can run farther.
Let water run that you do not intend to drink.
One has to face fear or forever run from it.
Run as hard as a wild beast if you will, but you won't get any reward greater than that destined for you.
A person can never run so fast as to run away from his backside.
A klingon does not run away from his battles.
May your enemies run with fear.
If a man told you that a dog had run off with your ear, would you go after the dog or search first for your ear?
Some have been thought brave because they didn't have the courage to run away.
It is better to run back than run the wrong way.
Tell the truth and then run.
Sit, walk, or run, but don't wobble.
Ya mout does run like a duck pouch.
Water does run, but blood does clod.
Dead man can' run from ‘e coffin.
Pemba does not run away fro a small shower.
Easy to run downhill, much puffing to run up.
Beat one dog and the others will run away.
If an insect as ever bit you when you see it, you kill it or run away.
If you run too fast you bypass a safe place you would have hidden yourself.
You do not run into mountains, but people yes.
A man does not run among thorns for no reason; either he is chasing a snake or a snake is chasing him.
No matter how fast a man can run, he can never chase his shadow and catch it.
Do not run away from a pond of water.
A river doesn't run straight because there was nobody to advise it.
If you run after two hares you will catch neither.
You can run into debt, but you have to crawl out.
Rather than run into debt, wear your old coat.
Learn to walk before you run.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
One cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
He who wants to jump high must take a long run.
He who would leap far must first take a long run.
An old fox does not run twice into the snare.
Crazy wheels run longest.
Time and hour run through the roughest day.
He that hunts others, must run himself.
When the old woman is hard pressed, she has to run.
In the long run, the greyhound kills the hare.
It is better to walk than to run; it is better to stand than to walk; it is better to sit than to stand; it is better to lie than to sit.
The wolf told the dog: It does not matter that I run and you follow me, what matters is that when I turn around you will be next to me.
He that runs fast will not run long.
Do not run after a cart that will not take you.
Still water runs deep.
The patient thief is as a tree whose root runs deep as he waits for the sweet fruit..
A coquettish woman is like a shadow -- as you chase her she runs away, and if you run away, she chases after you.
Our time runs on like a stream; first fall the leaves and then the tree.
A lie runs until it is overtaken by the truth.
A lie runs until truth catches up to it.
No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up.
He who runs after good fortune runs away from peace.
When a lion runs and looks back, its not that he is afraid, rather he is trying to see the distance he has covered.
He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
Lambs don't runs with the mouth of the sleeping wolf.
When the tree is down, everyone runs to it with a hatchet to cut wood.
When a dog runs away, hit him! hit him!
Experience runs a valuable school, but fools learn in no other.
He runs far who never turns.
All water runs to the sea.
Two dogs fight for a bone and a third runs away with it.
Time runs like the river current.
Time goes on while life runs out.
No sheep runs into the mouth of a sleeping wolf.
Where the dike is lowest the water first runs over.
Give an ass oats and he runs after thistles.
His like jean de nivelle's dog, that runs away when he is called.
Fast as the hare runs, the greyhound outruns her, since he catches her.
One who runs alone cannot be outrun.
One who runs alone cannot be outrun by another.
The same water never runs into the same river.
Sorrow also sings, when it runs to deep to cry.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
Alone a youth runs fast, with an elder slow, but together they go far.
The lame runs if he has to.
He that fights and runs away, may live to fight another day.
No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up.
An evil act runs a thousand miles.
A person moves up while water runs down.
The Yangtse never runs backwards; man recaptures not his youth.
There is a good reason why natural water never runs at night.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away in the morning to avoid removing the ash; he will have to deal with it when he comes back.
A woman who runs holding her breast has got nothing pursuing her.
He is a fool whose sheep runs away twice.
Long runs the fox, but at last is caught.
He that fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
A good reputation stands still; a bad one runs.
As water runs towards the sword money towards the rich man's hand.
The water runs while the miller sleeps.
When the measure is full, it runs over.
When a man is down, everybody runs over him.
When the wine runs to waste in the cellar, he mends the cask.
While two dogs are fighting for a bone, a third runs away with it.
Though the fox runs, the pullets have wings.
He that runs fast will not run long.
Poverty runs after the poor, wealth after the rich.
Two dogs strive for a bone, and a third runs away with it.
Peace is the well from which the stream of joy runs.
As long runs the Fox as he hath feet.
He who runs from the white ant may stumble upon the stinging ant.
The lame man runs if he has to.
The pursued runs on four feet, the pursuer on two.
Who runs more, lacks walking.
Water runs a whole mile downstream easier than an inch upstream.
He who runs away from the fire, falls in the water.
When the tree falls everyone runs to cut the branches.
No mad dog runs seven years.
He that holds the handle of a frying-pan runs the risk of burning himself.
Riches run after the rich, and poverty runs after the poor.
When the tree is down everybody runs to the branches.
He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
He who runs in his youth, trots in his old age.
A man in a passion rides a horse that runs away with him.
Runs like having the head as the third foot.
He that flees and runs away might live to see another day.
When the poor man's buffalo calves every one runs with his pail (for milk).
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away.
You never miss the water till the well runs dry.
It is the smooth water that runs deepest.
When the tree is fallen every one runs to it with his axe.
A wound foreseen paint the less.
Blushing is the paint of good habits.
Don't paint the image of a demon on a wall.
Don't paint the devil on the wall.
The devil is not as scary as they paint him.
A blind man's wife needs no paint.
Learn to paint a tiger and you only paint his skin; learn to know a human being and you only know his face.
The tongue can paint what the eye can't see.
Exaggeration is to paint a snake and add legs.
For whom does the blind man's wife paint herself?
It is not good to paint the devil on the wall.
You should not paint the devil on the wall.
He who paints the flower cannot paint its fragrance.
I shall paint you in your own colours.
If it moves, salute it; if it doesn't move, pick it up; and if you can't pick it up, paint it.
If it moves, salute it. If it doesn't move, pick it up. If you can't pick it up, paint it.
Can you paint the outer wall neglecting the inner wall?
I shall paint you in your own colours. [Take you according to your own showing.].
No pains, no gains.
Pains and patience would take a snail to america.
In war, hunting, and love, for one pleasure a hundred pains.
No one feels the pains that arise from unintended injury.
Without pains no gains.
The unmarried don't know about labor pains.
If you want to experience the pains of hell, spend winter in Messina and summer in Palermo.
The foot pains in sympathy with the toe.
Genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains.
He who begins and does not finish loves their pains.
Fly that pleasure which pains afterward.
Those who derive fun watching lunatics, out to have one as a child or relation to know the pains of it.
He who takes pains will get things done.
In war, hunting, and love you suffer a thousand pains for one pleasure.
For one pleasure a thousand pains.
People take more pains to be damned than to be saved.
Nothing to be got without pains but poverty.
In hawks, hounds, arms, and love, for one pleasure a thousand pains.
No gains without pains.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
Hurt not others with that which pains yourself.
No pains, no gains.
The cock that loses its pace time of cockadoodle should be dressed otherwise it will misguide you.
He that stumbles and falls not, mends his pace.
When you lose on the drum-beating if the Gods, you lose on the rhythm and pace of life.
Send a boy where he wants to go and you see his best pace.
A marketplace is not the pace for a husband and wife to argue.
Soft pace goes far.
Plow with the oxen and seed with the cows at their own pace.
He who stumbles and does not fall mends his pace.
A marketplace is not the pace for a husband and wife to argue. However long the night may last, there will be a morning. Daylight follows a dark night.
If you want to experience the pains of hell, spend winter in Messina and summer in Palermo.
With everything Messina has the port, but for beautiful Palermo it is always just an orchard.
How much is prestige worth, not as much as Palermo, if you take away the saints.
If Catania had a port, Palermo would be dead.
If Messina had gardens Palermo would be a bunch of poor country houses.
The bands of Palermo and the privileges of Messina.
Palermo for its illustrious writers and Messina for its harbor.
God protect us from the Sicilian cop especially if he's from Palermo.
Messina is clever, Palermo is pompous; Messina is rich, Palermo is greedy.
Anyone can fancy his bed as a palace.
Better the cottage where one is merry than the palace where one weeps.
A small tumbledown house is better than a communal palace.
Home, dear home, small as thou art, to me thou art a palace.
The fire that burns a royal palace only enhances its splendor.
Better my own cottage, than the palace of another.
Better joy in a cottage than sorrow in a palace.
A hobbling cat is better than a fast horse when rats swarm the palace.
A lame cat is better than a swift horse when rats infest the palace.
The problem with the palace attendant isn't how to steal the king's drums but where to play them from.
Love can turn a cottage into a golden palace.
A hut is a palace to the poor man.
To have a hut built from mud here is better than a palace made from gold and marble on the Arabian Gulf.
What good is a palace if it's inhabited by owls. Better a straw hut inhabited by humans.
The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom. (William Blake)
Honest work won't let you live in a stone palace.
Stone to stone – palace, grain to grain – loaf of bread.
A paddle here, a paddle there - the canoe stays still.
Love many, trust few and always paddle your own canoe.
Paddle together, bail, paddle; paddle, bail; paddle towards the land.
Doesn't paddle, but puts his feet in the river.
Dip your paddle in and join the effort.
Life is like a boat you move on when you paddle and stay in the same place if not.
Paddle your own canoe.
Up a creek without a paddle.
Paddle together, bail, paddle; paddle, bail; paddle towards the land.
When you bump into someone, begging your pardon doesn't put it right.
Men that have much business must have much pardon.
Thief who steals thief has one hundred years of pardon.
The pardon may be more severe than the penalty.
In every pardon there is love.
A wilful fault has no excuse, and deserves no pardon.
If you offend, ask for pardon; if offended, forgive.
They who have much business must have much pardon.
Pardon is the choicest flower of victory.
Know all and you will pardon all.
The pardon arrives after the man was hung.
Never ask pardon before you are accused.
Life? That is a candle in the wind; frost upon a roof; the twitching of the fish in a pan.
Turn the cake in the pan.
Out of the frying pan into the fire.
From the frying pan into the fire.
Fry the chapati when the pan is hot.
A pan was mocking a pot because his mouth is big.
Life is like a candle in the wind; like frost on the roof; like the wriggling of the fish in the pan.
Don't jump from the frying pan into the fire.
The earthen pan gains nothing by contact with the copper pot.
His auld brass will buy a new pan.
Nothing is blacker than the pan.
The grill said to the frying pan: I want big fishes not minnows.
We are not yet roasting, and already we make sops in the pan.
Man is a fish, woman a fisher, love is the hook and marriage is the frying pan.
A Party member is an active person.
When a cock invites a cockroach for a birthday party, he has prepared dinner for himself.
Party over, musicians by foot.
A small but excellent party, said the man, he was drinking alone.
He who cackled is the guilty party.
If we remember the quarrels and mistakes of yesterday, we will never have someone to party together with us.
Cockroach ain't have nuh right at hen party.
A fool and his money is one big party.
It's out of ignorance that a goat will attend a leopard's party.
Literal meaning: He left the party without having Hommos.
For lazy people it is always party time.
Let the other party be heard too.
There is nary a feast or a party without a monk or a priest.
A party of two is that of God; of three of the king; of four is of the devil.
A party of one alone is not a party.
After a trial one party is naked and the other without a shirt.
No injury can be complained of by a consenting party.
When a cat goes out for a walk, the mice throw a party.
When a cow is crying, a dog is making a party.
Don't take your harp to the party.
A mad bull is not to be tied up with a pack thread.
When you are in a pack of hounds, you either bark or wag your tail.
It is as difficult to win love as it is to pack salt in pine needles.
The wolf dies where the pack is.
Let every pedlar carry his own pack.
A small pack becomes a small peddler.
It's difficult to take a wolf cub without bringing in the whole pack.
If the owner of a calabash calls it a worthless calabash, others will join him to use it to pack rubbish.
Before you make a friend, eat a pack of salt with him.
To carry care to bed is to sleep with a pack on your back.
Wisdom is the least burdensome travelling pack.
A pack of cards is the devil's prayer-book.
Many can pack the cards that cannot play.
Many people can pack the cards; fewer can play the game.
Many do lack, that yet would fain have in their pack.
It's a silly pack that may not pay the custom.
Take part of the pelf when the pack is a dealing.
One ass calls the other a pack animal.
At a dangerous passage yield precedence.
The winds may fell the massive oak, but bamboo, bent even to the ground, will spring upright after the passage of the storm.
God promises a safe landing, but not a calm passage.
At the narrow passage, there is no brother and no friend.
If the throat can grant passage to a knife, the anus should wonder how to expel it.
The worse the passage the more welcome the port.
At the narrow passage there is no brother and no friend.
He gets his passage for nothing and then winks at the captain's wife.
When joy is in the parlour, sorrow is in the passage.
If summer had a mother, she would weep at summer's passing.
Lower your head modestly while passing, and you will harvest bananas.
Little and lasting is better than much and passing.
Listen to all, 'plucking a feather from every passing goose,' but follow no one absolutely.
Never give up your own old mat for a better prayer mat which you see passing.
In taking revenge, a man is but even with his enemy; but in passing it over, he is superior.
All weather is passing.
Where there is a hippopotamus, be careful when passing with a pirogue.
We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through. Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love... and then we return home.
A man of high principles is someone who can watch a chess game without passing comment.
If you close your eyes because of the bad people around you, you will not see the good people passing by.
Where there is a hippopotamus, be careful when passing with a pirogue.
Time is a river of passing events - a rushing torrent.
You cannot prevent the birds of sadness from passing over your head, but you can prevent them from nesting in your hair.
Like the seaweed that clings to each other after each passing boat separates them, so too a family will come together with the passing of each crisis.
The hour is passing.
Passing the Rubicon.
When he arrived at the banks of the Rubicon, which divides Cisalpine Gaul from the rest of Italy ... he stopped to deliberate.... At last he cried out: "The die is cast" and immediately passed the river.
Man is like a breath, his days like a passing shadow.
Pears and women are the sweetest in the parts that are heaviest.
He's no fool who parts with what he can't keep to get what he shall not lose.
Wisdom consists of ten parts -- nine parts of silence and one part with few words.
Poverty parts good company.
He who meddles in others people's affairs will be left with two of three parts.
Better an ugly duckling from your own village than a beauty from foreign parts.
A rope parts where it is thinnest.
One who hides private parts wont get a child.
Books are preserved parts of minds.
Poverty parts good company, and is an enemy to vertue.
Dirt parts company.
A rope parts where is thinnest.
It is good to have friends in all parts.
There's a man who looks like a partridge with legs like a mosquito.
The last partridge to rise gets the most sticks thrown at it.
The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it.
No partridge is small when it claws the soil.
There is no partridge which does not know its own way of scratching.
The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it.
A man has to hold his mouth open a long time before a roasted partridge flies into it.
When you cook a guinea fowl, the partridge gets a headache.
When the partridge sings in the stone quarry bring the wood into the haystack.
He who eats a partridge in his youth will only be left with feathers in his old age.
If the partridge had the woodcock's thing, it would be the best bird that ever fly. Speak without ifs and ands.
The nuts from a palm tree don't fall without dragging a few leaves with it.
Though the palm tree in the jungle is big, who knows how big its yield will be?
The rattan basket criticizes the palm leaf basket, still both are full of holes.
The palm of ones hand does not eclipse the sun.
When the palm nuts ripen, you carry half and I carry half.
There is no distinction among the common baskets made of palm branches.
Little palm tree, stop crying, you child is the tall palm tree.
The strength of the palm tree is in its branches.
The blood soup made of one palm nut is shared in little drops.
The prickly branches of the palm tree do not show preference even to friends.
Even though the peel of the palm nut has no pulpy substance in it, it is stripped off all the same.
If the young palm tree wants to stay alive, it grows next to the odum tree.
The army of the palm tree is its branches.
It is only one bad palm tree that spoils the whole lot of palm wine.
A palm tree growing in the shade will not bear ripe fruit.
A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam which his mother puts into his palm.
There are no shortcuts to the top of the palm tree.
A child's hand is not burned by hot yam which is placed into his palm by his mother.
If a child shoots an arrow that reaches the top of a tall palm tree, then it must be that an elderly person carved the arrow for him.
An inch in a sword, or a palm in a lance, is a great advantage.
A palm tree climber is not expected to tell everything he sees from up above.
If the palm of the hand itches it signifies the coming of great luck.
If you go to a rat's village and it is eating palm nuts, you eat some too.
When you see a palm tree, the palm tree has seen you.
You don't have to climb the palm wine tree to drink palm wine.
A palm wine taper does not stop tapping palm wine because he once fell from the top of a palm wine tree.
God gave the giraffe a long neck so that He would not have to bend the palm tree.
Man is like a palm on the beach; moving with the wind of life.
It is good to know the truth, but it is better to speak of palm trees.
Don't try to cover the whole sky with the palm of your hand.
Mock the palm tree only when the date harvest is over.
There are no shortcuts to the top of the palm tree.
It is good to know the truth and to speak the truth. It is even better to know the truth and speak about palm trees.
His/her thumb is the middle of the palm of hand.
Plant rice when the ground is ready; pursue women when you feel passion.
Absence polishes passion, presence reinforces it.
Passion is of greater consequence than facts.
If passion drives, let reason hold the reins.
Where passion is high, reason is low.
He that shows his passion, tells his enemy where he may hit him.
The ruling passion strong in death.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
He who shows a passion tells his enemy where he may hit him.
The virtue of a woman does not go deep but her passion knows no limit.
A man in passion rides a mad horse.
He that shows a passion tells his enemy where he may hit him.
If you don't love yourself with passion, you'll love others with it. Passion is conserved.
He's a wise man that leads passion by the bridle.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
It is not the greatest beauties that inspire the most profound passion.
When passion entereth at the fore-gate wisdom goes out at the postern.
A man in a passion rides a horse that runs away with him.
A man's will can be his paradise, but it can also be his hell.
Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise.
One would not be alone in Paradise.
Self exaltation is the fool's paradise.
Even in paradise it is no fun to be alone.
Without other people's companionship, even paradise would be an unlikable place.
Who doesn't approach with disbelief, won't see the face of paradise.
Living mindlessly is paradise.
With a piece of bread in your hand you'll find paradise under a pine tree.
Patience is the key to paradise.
Even in paradise, living all alone would be hell.
A beautiful funeral does not necessarily lead to paradise.
Even paradise is no fun without people.
He who crosses a bridge to paradise and blows it after him is going to hell.
Patience is the key to paradise.
Home is the father's kingdom, the children's paradise, the mother's world.
It is better to sit with a wise man in prison than with a fool in paradise.
Without the companionship even paradise would be boring.
Paradise without people is not worth living in..
The devil seduced Eve in Italian. Eve mislead Adam in Bohemian. The Lord scolded them both in German. Then the angel drove them from paradise in Hungarian.
One can't enter Paradise in spite of the saints.
He that will enter into paradise must have a good key.
Having a priest in the house is paradise on earth.
Hell shared with a sage is better than paradise with a fool.
It is not good to be alone, even in Paradise.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove.
You cannot get into Paradise without a guide.
Who kisses the feet of his mother, kisses the step of Paradise.
The bacon of paradise for the married man that does not repent.
Without human companions, paradise itself would be an undesirable place.
Home is the father's kingdom, the children's paradise, the mother's world.
The friend who helps me and the enemy who does me no harm, make a pair of earrings.
There's more to dancing than a pair of dancing shoes.
It is easier to fill twenty bellies than one pair of eyes.
Two boots make a pair.
Look for a thrifty woman -- even though it may cost you a pair of shoes.
More belongs to riding than a pair of boots.
If you have one pair of good soles it is better than two pairs of good uppers.
One pair of good soles is worth two pairs of upper leathers.
One pair of ears would exhaust a hundred tongues.
There's no turning a windmill with a pair of bellows.
Like to like, Jack to Gill, a penny a pair.
More belongs to dancing than a pair of dancing-shoes.
A gentle breeze blowing in the right direction is better than a pair of strong oars.
Young courage and old caution are a strong pair.
You cannot drive a windmill with a pair of bellows.
A pair of light shoes is not all that is needed for dancing.
Everybody must wear out one pair of fool's shoes, if he wear no more.
A forgetful head makes a weary pair of heels.
Better a fair pair of heels than a halter.
A gentle breeze blowing in the right direction is better than a pair of strong oars.
There is not a pair of ears for every Jew.
You cannot drive a windmill with a pair of bellows.
The two make a pair.
Better a patch than a hole.
Don't care lost his corn patch.
Every man has one black patch, and some have two.
The hole is more honorable than the patch.
The sack has found its patch.
The piece of cloth that is in another's bag does not patch your garmet.
Red house and a potato patch.
A girl who cannot patch man's trousers in between the legs, must not marry at all, because what use does a man have of such a stupid wife.
A girl who cannot patch man's trousers in between the legs.
Even a sheet of paper is lighter when two people lift it.
A sheet of paper is lighter if two of you don't try to carry it.
A book tightly shut is but a block of paper.
A child's life is like a piece of paper on which every passerby leaves a mark.
To have five drachmas in the hand is better than ten drachmas on paper.
Paper does not blush.
A white wall is the fool's paper.
It was smooth on paper, but we've forgotten about ravines.
A lawsuit for a maravedi consumes a real's worth of paper.
One day a student asked Taiga, "What is the most difficult part of painting?" Taiga answered, "The part of the paper where nothing is painted is the most difficult."
Don't use oiled paper to wrap up fire.
Paper can't wrap up a fire.
A fire cannot be wrapped with paper.
Ink on paper.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
Paper is patient.
A white wall is the fool's paper.
Paper is patient.
Love came in a paper bag, said the maiden when she got a letter from her sweetheart.
Paper is patient - you can put anything on it.
Paper and ink and little justice.
It worked on paper, but [we've] forgotten about ravines (and we'll have to march [them]).
It's your own lantern; don't poke holes in the paper.
A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.
Your words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
The best payment is on the peck bottom.
Error is no payment.
At the end of the song comes payment.
A good grievance is better than bad payment.
Lend to your friend, and ask payment of your enemy.
Misreckoning is no payment.
Sweet is the wine but sour is the payment.
An unwanted helper gets droppings as payment.
Good-will should be tane in part of payment.
Your friend lends and your enemy asks for payment.
The payment adorns the debt.
Get what to lend out and at the same time how to demand it back, for payment might be a tussle.
The cock goes to town for only four days and returns home a peacock.
A peacock has too little in its head, too much in its tail.
Them short fe singer when dem put peacock in a choir.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; married, an ass.
If the peacock were to look at its feet, it would stop him strutting.
The peacock hath fair feathers, but a foul voice.
The peacock has fair feathers, but foul feet.
He kills the peacock for the beauty of its feathers.
Peacock, look at your legs.
The peacock hath fair feathers, but foul feet.
The bachelor is a peacock, the fiancT is a lion and the married man a mule.
No peacock envies another peacock his tail.
As proud as a peacock.
The prickly pear has company only when it bears fruit.
No pear falls into a shut mouth.
The worst pig often gets the best pear.
Prickly pear trees dont produce peaches.
I cow dod did know how him troat hole ton him wouldn't chance pear seed.
A pear tree cannot bear an apple.
A ripe pear is more likely to fall in the shit than onto the clean ground.
When the pear is ripe, it falls.
A pear will never fall into a closed mouth.
The worst hog often gets the best pear.
When the pear is ripe it falls by itself.
The wild pear has blossomed: the kid goat no longer suffers.
A pear will fall to its root.
When the pear is ripe, it falls.
When the pear is ripe it will drop.
A bountiful pear harvest means shortages of everything else.
A pear will fall to the root of the tree.
Be a custom good or bad, a peasant will have it continue in force.
It is good to be priest at Easter, child in Lent, peasant at Christmas, and foal in harvest-time.
I am a judge of cresses, said the peasant, as he was eating hemlock.
When the calf is stolen, the peasant mends the stall.
The pope and a peasant know more between them than the pope alone.
A peasant between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats.
An ennobled peasant does not know his own father.
Every peasant is proud of the pond in his village because from it he measures the sea.
If the thunder is not loud, the peasant forgets to cross himself.
The peasant will not cross himself before it begins to thunder.
The peasant sweats and the nobleman is always right.
A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in.
The priest to his book, the peasant to his plough.
When thieves fall out the peasant recovers his goods.
Don't let the peasant know how good the cheese with the pears is.
An upstanding peasant is bigger than a nobleman on his knees.
The peasant is like the monk in many ways.
The gallows is not made for the rich, but for the head of the peasant.
He who would cheat a peasant, must take one with him.
When a peasant gets rich, he knows neither relations nor friends.
Set a peasant on horseback, and he forgets both God and man.
A peasant between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats.
You cannot pick up a pebble with one finger.
The pebble in the brook secretly thinks itself a precious stone.
A diamond with a flaw is worth more than a pebble without imperfections.
Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without one.
In the shop of the sightless jeweller, the ruby and pebble are one.
The pebble comes from the mountain.
A pebble and a diamond are alike to a blind man.
One finger cannot lift a pebble.
One pebble doesn't make a floor.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The lance never blunted the pen, nor the pen the lance.
What was written by a pen, cannot be taken out with an axe.
The pen of the tongue should be dipped in the ink of the heart.
Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the "guilty” list.
Rather a slip of the foot than a slip of the pen.
The pen wounds deeper than an arrow.
Every rooster crows in its own pen.
It is better to be threatened by the sword of a Turk than by the pen of a German.
Transliteration: Aintu vayatu piḷḷaikku aimpatu vayatu peṇ kāl muṭakkavēṇṭum.
A man's intelligence is located in the tip of the pen.
Mend the pen only after the sheep are all gone.
Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the "guilty" list.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
He writes with an iron pen. [That which he writes will not be easily altered.].
The chicken that stays in the farmyard, will peck the crumbs.
The best payment is on the peck bottom.
Crows do not peck out crow's eyes.
A crow will not peck out a crow's eyes.
Gentility, sent to market, will not buy a peck of meal.
One crow does not peck out another's eyes.
Foster a raven and it will peck out your eyes.
A peck of March dust is worth a king's ransom.
We must all eat a peck of dirt before we die.
One crow does not peck out another's eyes.
Bring up a raven, and he will peck out your eyes.
A crow a crow's eyes doesn't peck.
Ravens do not peck out raven's eyes.
Ravens do not peck out raven's eyes.
Bring up a raven and he will peck out your eyes.
Feed the raven and he'll peck out your eyes.
Raise ravens and they will peck our your eye.
Trust no one, until you have eaten a peck of salt with him.
Big chickens don't peck at small seeds.
A cough will stick longer by a horse than a peck of oats.
The world is a rose: smell it and pass it on to your friends.
A day-old pigeon cannot fly over a mountain pass.
No call alligator long mouth till you pass him.
Pass by your enemy hungry but never naked.
Let the first urge pass, wait for the second.
However long the dry season takes a seasonal river will never forget where it used to pass.
Hear the evidence before you pass sentence.
Never be boastful; someone may pass who knew you as a child.
A huckster who cannot pass off mouse-turd for pepper, has not learned his trade.
Better one good thing that is, rather than two good things that were, or three good things that might never come to pass.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows: he breathes but does not live.
At a great river be the last to pass.
A little truth makes the whole lie pass.
Put off for one day and ten days will pass by.
It is an unthinking man who achieves prosperity, and then finds with time, that his body can no longer pass through the door.
Han'some face and good luck don' trabble de same pass.
Were fools silent, they would pass for wise.
If you feel an urge to work, take a nap, and it will pass.
If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow.
Where the cattle does not graze, the warriors pass.
The summer moments always pass quickly.
Wha' ain't pass yuh ain't miss yuh.
Happy people never count hours as they pass.
Never let a handshake pass the elbow.
If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow.
This, too, shall pass.
Those who do not forgive break the bridge on which they have to pass.
Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition.
All things must pass.
This too, shall pass.
A man's studies pass into his character.
Anyone who is satisfied to stand still should not complain when others pass him.
The person who has many faults is usually the first to criticize others. Put something off for one day, and ten days will pass.
Put something off for one day, and ten days will pass.
Without knowing a way thoroughly at day time, never attempt to pass it at night.
Life is just as long as the time it takes for someone to pass by a window.
That which is written in heaven, comes to pass on earth.
The festival of mpaza comes to pass.
Don't pass judgement on a work of art if you don't know how to create it.
Whoever waits for time to pass loses time.
The stream does not pass over an old stone.
The horn that came out last will pass the ear that came out first.
A rich man's foolish sayings often pass for wise ones.
He who lives a long life must pass through much evil.
The foolish sayings of a rich man pass for wise ones.
Let a fool hold his tongue, and he will pass for a sage.
Let the time pass and the shadow stretchǃ.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows. He breathes, but does not live.
The stream does not pass over an old stone.
Pass off a fish eye for a pearl.
Many a fool might pass for a wise man if he would only keep his mouth shut.
One must pass through the door or the window.
Time makes love pass.
No day should pass without something being done.
Perhaps no one has a finer command of a language than he who keeps his mouth shut.
The thief makes perhaps one mistake; those he stole from made a hundred.
Perhaps you will eat a whole elephant and nothing gets stuck in your throat, and then you eat a fish and a bone gets stuck in your throat.
Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come.
Those who think there too big to do little things are perhaps to small to do big things.
It is not the things in the soup that I am afraid of but perhaps the person I am eating with.
A slip of the foot may soon be recovered; but that of the tongue perhaps never.
If I tell you my dream, you might forget it. If I act on my dream, perhaps you will remember it, but if I involve you, it becomes your dream too.
I broke my leg, perhaps for my good.
Perhaps they are not stars, but rather openings in heaven where the love of our lost ones pours through and shines down upon us to let us know they are happy.
No undertaking is difficult if pursued with perseverance.
Perseverance can reduce an iron rod to a sewing needle.
Having beauty doesn't mean understanding the perseverance of marriage.
By perseverance the snail reached the arc.
Perseverance kills the game.
Perseverance brings success.
Perseverance kills the game.
By perseverance the Greeks reached Troy.
Sooner or later perseverance achieves.
Don't allow the grass to grow on the path of friendship.
The path to your heart's desire is never overgrown.
Go often to the house of thy friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path.
When he opens up his path, may he carry me along, safe and sound.
Discipline awaits he who leaves his path.
Though each path is different, there is only one way.
He who treads the path of love walks a thousand meters as if it were only one.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
There is a path to the top of even the highest mountain.
There are many colourful flowers on the path of life, but the prettiest have the sharpest thorns.
The best way to eat the elephant standing in your path is to cut it up into little pieces.
The strong man and the waterfall channel their own path.
A trodden path bears no grass.
If God sends you down a stony path, may he give you strong shoes.
Two footsteps do not make a path.
Tired feet always say that the path is long.
An open path never seems long.
It is often better to go by a circuitous than by a direct path.
The path leads towards loved ones not thorns.
Don't take the straight path or the winding path. Take the path your ancestors have taken.
Don't take the straight path or the winding path.
A fool is like a wanderer lost on a path.
Who does not know the path should ask.
A friend is someone you share the path with.
The voyager's path is marked by the stars and not the sand dunes.
Misfortunes do not flourish on one path, they grow everywhere.
The well trodden path is not always the right path.
Who ever does not respect confidence will never find happiness in their path.
To follow the path, look to the master, follow the master, walk with the master, see through the master, become the master.
The obstacle is the path.
In every village, there is a path that leads to the mill.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
It is the path of the needle that the thread is accustomed to follow.
The path leads towards loved ones not thorns.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
If you don't know the path to the spring or swamp, follow the trail of broken pots.
On an unknown path every foot is slow.
The middle path is the safe path.
If all seeds that fall were to grow, then no one could follow the path under the trees.
A little, contemptible path is sometimes the one that leads you to the highway.
Darkness shows no wrong path to she who gets what she wants before dark.
You ask the path when the high road is before your eyes.
Hard is the path from poverty to renown.
Empty the clear path to heaven, crowded the dark road to hell.
A woodpecker doesn't come to a living tree nor snake to a path of ants.
Be patient, cossack, and you'll be a chieftain.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will spare yourself one hundred days of tears.
The patient thief is as a tree whose root runs deep as he waits for the sweet fruit..
To the patient man will come all the riches of the world.
If the patient dies, the doctor has killed him, but if he gets well, the saints have saved him.
He that can be patient finds his foe at his feet.
Be patient with a bad neighbor. Maybe he'll leave or a disaster will take him out.
A patient that can swallow food makes the nurse doubtful.
He who is patient is always successful.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow.
When you are an anvil be patient; when a hammer, strike.
Dear physic always does good, if not to the patient, at least to the apothecary.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, strike hard.
It is not the time to go for the doctor when the patient is dead.
The doctor demands his fees whether he has killed the illness or the patient.
An old patient is better than a new doctor.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, be strong.
Capacious as the sleeve of a monk and patient as the priest with his arms across his chest.
Better a patient man than a warrior, one who controls his temper than one who takes a city.
A patient man will eat ripe fruits.
A patient woman can roast an ox with a lantern.
Be patient with your enemies and forgiving of your friends.
A man who is patient is rewarded.
A good doctor treats both the patient and the disease.
A man who is his own doctor has a fool for his patient.
Beware the anger of a patient man.
While the doctors consult, the patient dies.
He who treats himself has a fool for a patient.
Paper is patient.
Every patient is a doctor after his cure.
Patient without any pain, the dog is lame when it wants to.
If a greedy eater is near a patient, such a patient can never survive.
Patient people are patient to gain longevity.
Woe unto the patient whose doctors argue.
The weaker the patient is, the sooner the sickness will end.
The suffering patient knows more than the expert doctor.
As the weather goes, so goes the patient.
Paper is patient - you can put anything on it.
The patient who names a doctor his heir makes a big mistake.
Always be patient with the rich and powerful.
While doctors consult, the patient dies.
The shepherd of a herd of toads must be very patient with his rod.
A patient person has all the wealth that there is in this world.
Beware the anger of a patient man.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, be strong.
Practice makes perfect.
Speech and action make the perfect conduct.
A hundred male and a hundred female qualities make a perfect human being.
A beautiful thing is never perfect.
Nobody is perfect.
There are two kinds of perfect people: those who are dead, and those who have not been born yet.
Better to have a diamond with a few small flaws than a rock that is perfect.
Where there is equality there never can be perfect love.
Perfect love sometimes does not come until the first grandchild.
There are two perfect men; one dead, and the other unborn.
A diamond with a flaw is better than a common stone that is perfect.
A gem is not polished without rubbing, nor is a man perfect without trials.
Practice does not make perfect but a perfect practice makes perfect.
One day in perfect health is a lot.
A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.
Perfect love casteth out fear.
Perfect love cannot be without equality.
A woman who has not been twice married cannot know what a perfect marriage is.
A man who seeks a perfect friend, will remain friendless.
A perfect whipping-top for changing sides.
Practice makes perfect.
Of no worldly good can the joy be perfect, unless it is shared by a friend.
A child, who loves culture and breeding, is a perfect child.
Perfect Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance. (a.k.a The six P's)
If between friends there is not equality, there won't be perfect love.
No one is perfect.
Practice makes perfect.
"Experience is the best teacher." (i.e., "Practice makes perfect.")
Pain is forgotten where gain comes.
A pain in the foot is soon forgotten -- a pain in the head is not.
The pain of the little finger is felt by the whole body.
When the pain has passed one forgets the medicine.
Love flies away and the pain remains.
If you return an ass's kick, most of the pain is yours.
A mother has little love for a son who did not give her pain.
Pride feels no pain.
Some will learn through pain and sorrow, others through joy and laughter, so it is written.
Greed will cause pain.
The smoke caused by meat which is roasted does not cause pain in the eyes of a hungry person.
He who looks up too much gets a pain in the neck.
Jealousy is a pain which eagerly seeks what causes pain.
There is no pain greater than the pain of rejection.
There is pain in prohibition.
I feel pain that envy is exchanged for beautiful deeds.
Another's misfortune does not cure my pain.
The pain is sometimes preferable to the treatment.
A woman's in pain, a woman's in woe, a woman is ill, when she likes to be so.
Who suffers from love, feels no pain.
If you wake up in the morning and feel no pain, it is to be feared that you died in the night.
Who bites with a lie will swallow with pain.
Where a man feels pain he lays his hand.
To understand life, endure pain.
No pleasure without pain.
An hour of pain is as long as a day of pleasure.
Short lived pleasure is the parent of pain.
Life has always been a mixture of joy and pain, wealth and poverty.
When your finger is in pain, your sight is not lazy.
A man can endure the worst pain - of others.
The ungrateful son is a wart on his father's face; to leave it is a blemish, to cut it off is pain.
A boy may cry; but a man as to conceal his pain.
Pain is inevitable suffering is optional.
Disappointment hurts more than pain.
Hope of gain lessens pain.
Crotch seam rivet in original Levi's dropped due to pain from standing near fires.
No pleasure without pain.
No gain without pain.
When the wound is healed the pain is forgotten.
Jealousy is a pain that seeks what caused it.
Pride feels no pain.
Patient without any pain, the dog is lame when it wants to.
Someone else's pain is easy to carry.
A pain that pricks the conscience is more effective than a lot of whiplashes.
Not to have felt pain is not to have been human.
In a good word there are three winters' warmth; in one malicious word there is pain for six frosty months.
After pleasure comes pain.
It is a pain both to pay and pray.
Whoever marries for love will always live in pain.
Who suffers because of love, feels no pain.
The rich have no pain.
Keep your feet on the ground and you'll lessen the pain.
Serve the Lord and you'll see what pain is.
Plain oil cures every pain.
Love without pain is not to be found anywhere.
Grief for a husband is like a pain in the elbow, sharp and short.
Death will cure all pain.
What adds to knowledge, adds to pain.
No man learneth but by pain or shame.
He who lives long knows what pain is.
Wounds pain most when grown cool.
Love, pain, and money cannot be kept secret; they soon betray themselves.
We are content to forgo joy when pain is also lost.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
Revenge is a confession of pain.
Pleasure and pain succeed each other.
Pleasure often comes from pain.
Pain of mind is worse than pain of body.
Pain past is pleasure.
Pain mingles with pleasure.
Not the pain, but the shame.
Time heals old pain, while it creates new ones.
Only the victim feels really the pain.
Riches are gotten with pain, kept with care, and lost with grief.
Death is nothing and pain is nothing.
If your head be without pain don't thrust it into trouble.
The good is the enemy of the best.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
The half is better than the whole.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
The hand that gives gathers.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The harp dispels care.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
A bitter centipede if eaten in a pleasing berry pie will taste sweet.
Too many fingers spoil the pie.
He has a finger in every pie.
To one who has a pie in the oven you may give a bit of your cake.
Life is a dung pie from which you take a bite every day.
Promises, like pie crust, are made to be broken.
Hunger is not [your] aunt (, [it] will not bring you a pie).
To a Vermonter, a Yankee is someone who eats apple pie for breakfast.
He has his finger in every pie.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
A good painter need not give a name to his picture, a bad one must.
A picture is worth ten thousand words.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
One picture is worth ten thousand words.
A picture is worth a thousand words, and yet picture books are for infants.
A picture is a poem wanting words.
He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes.
A picture says more than a thousand words.
A day-old pigeon cannot fly over a mountain pass.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
Vetches seem bitter to the full-cropped pigeon.
Better a sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof.
Even a pigeon has a pussy.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a pigeon on the roof.
A sparrow in the hand is better then a pigeon on the branch.
safer than the pigeon of Mekkah.
Better sparrow in the hand than pigeon on the roof.
In the countryside eat cardoon, because at the castle you'll eat pigeon.
He that wants to keep his house clean must not let priest or pigeon into it.
Shoot at a pigeon and kill a crow.
The fried dove/pigeon (or chicken) will not fly into your mouth.
There is no queue at the gate of Patience.
If love is a sickness, patience is the remedy.
Patience is a tree whose root is bitter, but its fruit is very sweet.
Mother Nature, time and patience are the three best doctors.
Patience is the most beautiful prayer.
At the bottom of patience is heaven.
A handfull of patience is worth a bushel of brains.
Even the saints' patience has its limits.
Nothing is so full of victory as patience.
At the bottom of patience one finds heaven.
Whoever plows with a team of donkeys must have patience.
Patience is the mother of a beautiful child.
There is no bad patience.
A proposal without patience breaks its own heart.
Patience is bitter, but it has a sweet fruit.
Patience wears out stones.
With patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Patience is the key of joy; but haste is the key to sorrow.
Patience is a virtue that causes no shame.
Patience is poultice for all wounds.
Pains and patience would take a snail to america.
There is not a tree in Heaven that is higher than the tree of patience.
Endeavor to bear the ignorance of fortune with patience.
One minute of patience, ten years of peace.
For the friendship of two, the patience of one is required.
Patience is a plant that does not grow in everyone's garden.
One minute of patience can result in ten years of peace.
Patience is a flower that grows not in everyone's garden.
The salt of patience seasons everything.
Time and patience change the mulberry leaf to satin.
Who has patience may get fat thrushes at a farthing apiece.
Patience makes all hardships light.
Patience surpasses learning.
Patience is the key to paradise.
The secret of patience is doing something else in the meantime.
Have patience and the mulberry leaf will become satin.
With patience and a bit of spittle, the elephant picks up the ant so little.
Patience can break through iron doors.
Patience is the key to paradise.
If patience hides something, anger won't search and get.
Patience when teased is often transformed into rage.
Patience, money and time bring all things to past.
Patience is the key to tranquility.
Have patience, the grass will be milk soon enough.
Patience is a virtue.
Patience is power; with time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Patience and the mulberry leaf become a silk robe.
With time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Nature, time and patience are the three great physicians.
If you do not have patience you cannot make beer.
A girl's patience can only be recognised by how long she keeps her virginity.
Patience over wins a lot of ill.
Patience is the key to paradise.
It is easy for a man in health to preach patience to the sick.
Nature, time, and patience are three great physicians.
The cure for bad times is patience.
Have patience and you'll get what you want.
If meat is expensive then patience is cheap.
If patience is sour then its result is sweet.
We were silenced by our patience, he entered with his donkey.
The man with no patience waits for daylight, and when it comes he'll be blind.
We must bear our cross with patience, said the man when he took his wife on his back.
Suffering and patience, obedience and application, help the lowly born to honour.
Rhubarb and patience can work wonders.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
With patience and time the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Patience and forbearance make a bishop of his reverence.
Patience cures many an old complaint.
Patience is a plaster for all sores.
Time and Patience would bring the snail to Jerusalem.
He who has no patience, has nothing at all.
Patience! said the wolf to the ass.
The world is for him who has patience.
Who has patience sees his revenge.
Patience brings roses.
Patience provoked turns to fury.
Who is insulted for a long time, finally loses his patience.
With patience, mulberry leaves become satin.
Patience is bitter, but it bears sweet fruit.
If there is no patience, there will be no food.
Wisdom in the man, patience in the wife, brings peace to the house and a happy life.
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.
In prosperity caution, in adversity patience.
A lawyer needs three bags: one full of papers, one full of money, and one full of patience.
Patience is bitter but its fruits are sweet.
Patience is the virtue of the donkeys.
Laziness is often mistaken for patience.
There is no science without patience.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A bad penny always comes back.
A penny in a poor man's pocket is better than two in rich man's pocket.
Never burn a penny candle looking for a halfpenny.
A good joke is a penny worth.
A penny spared is better than a florin gained.
There are twenty-five uncaught sparrows for a penny.
Bad penny always turns up.
A penny saved is very grateful.
A penny saved is two-pence got.
Penny is penny's brother.
A penny saved is a penny gained.
A single penny fairly got, is worth a thousand that are not.
The unrighteous penny consumes the righteous dollar.
There's no compassion like the penny.
Penny and penny laid up will be many.
A penny is a lot of money–if you haven't got a penny.
Like to like, Jack to Gill, a penny a pair.
'tis a good farthing that saves a penny.
Where God sends babbies he sends penny loaves.
A penny spared is a penny saved.
He who doesn't risk a penny doesn't make a peso.
A penny saved is a penny gained.
If you have only two pennies left in the world, with the first penny, you should buy rice to feed your family. With the second penny, say the wise Japanese, you should buy a lily. The Japanese understand the importance of dreaming...
He who hasn't a penny sees bargains everywhere.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A single penny fairly got is worth a thousand that are not.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
The white penny will become useful in your dark days.
That which is stamped a penny will never be a pound.
A penny in time is as good as a dollar.
He who inherits a penny is expected to spend a dollar.
Penny wise, and pound foolish.
No penny, no paternoster.
Better give a penny than lend twenty.
A penny at a pinch is worth a pound.
A friend in Court is worth a penny in purse.
A good piece steil is worth a penny.
A penny is sometimes better spent than spared.
A penny saved is a penny earned, but sometimes a penny is better spent than saved.
If a poor man finds a penny, it is probably a false one.
A penny for your thoughts.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
There is no tune without a penny.
A penny is a lot of money, if you have not got a penny.
A bad penny always turns up.
An ill win penny will cast down a pound.
Drunken wife gat ay the drunken penny.
A penny saved is a penny gained.
The poor man's shilling is but a penny.
Penny wise and pound foolish.
Penny is money, and when there's two it chinks.
Sometimes a penny is better spent than saved.
Hope is the physician of each misery.
To a physician a sick man is a garden.
Those who take medicine and neglect their diet waste the skill of the physician.
God cures and the physician takes the fee.
A man cannot be a good physician if he has never been sick himself.
Every invalid is a physician.
Death is the poor man's best physician.
If you have a friend who is a physician, send him to your enemy's house.
The earth covers the errors of the physician.
Deceive not thy physician, confessor, or lawyer.
Do not dwell in a city whose governor is a physician.
A young physician fattens the churchyard.
It is God who cures, and the physician gets the money.
Better go without medicine than call in an unskilled physician.
Even an accomplished physician cannot cure himself.
There is no physician who can cure the disease of love.
A physician is also a man who pours special drugs into lots of bodies he rarely loves.
In the presence of fate, the physician becomes a fool.
The city, whose physician has the gout, is in a bad state.
They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.
If you wish to die young, make your physician your heir.
It ill becomes a carpenter to be heavy-handed, a smith to be shake-handed, or a physician to be tenderhearted.
A surgeon should be young a physician old.
He is a fool who makes his physician his heir.
God heals, and the physician takes the fee.
God, healeth, and the physician hath the thanks.
Physician heal thyself.
No man is a good physician who has never been sick.
The smallest pepper is hottest.
Pepper in someone else's eyes is a salve.
A little pepper burns a big man's mouth.
Don't be afraid of the chili pepper, even though it's so red.
People should not talk while they are eating or pepper may go down the wrong way.
A huckster who cannot pass off mouse-turd for pepper, has not learned his trade.
Although pepper is tiny, its taste is intense.
The mouth that eats pepper is the one that the pepper influences.
Scratch an old woman's back and she will let you taste her pepper pot.
The mouth which ate pepper is the one which pepper affected.
I have anointed you with kohl, do you, in return, anoint me with pepper?.
It's better to eat pepper and be happy than to eat honey and be sad.
Don't despise pepper because it is so small; eat, and see how pungent it is.
He crushes pepper under the nose of somebody.
Pepper is small but strong.
Pepper is black and hath a good smack.
I would I had as meikle pepper as he counts himself worthy Mice dirt.
Man is like pepper -- you only know him when you've ground him.
Heart with pepper, soul with garlic.
He who has plenty of pepper may season his food as he likes.
You may go as far as pepper grows.
The four seasons are salt, pepper, mustard and vinegar.
Though pepper is a tiny thing, its taste is mighty powerful.
He who has plenty of pepper will pepper his cabbage.
Does a man not know when he has pepper in his eyes?
A word spoken is past recalling.
A book is a good friend when it lays bare the errors of the past.
Forget the past, but look out in the future.
There is no appeal from time past.
The thousand brilliant accomplishments of the past cannot serve today's purpose.
A person worries about the past, distresses about the present, and fears the future.
A glorious past is the work of a glorious man.
Counsel is irksome when the matter is past remedy.
Like the chameleon, one eye on the future, one eye on the past.
Who has no past, has no future.
The future emerges from the past.
If God gives you leprosy, look to your own past misdeeds.
Can a mill go with the water that's past?
Children yoke parents to the past, present and future.
Look to the past to help us move forward in the future.
Consider the past and you shall know the future.
The still swine eat the mash. the wind ones run past it.
Live today, forget the past.
The danger past, the saint cheated.
Whosoever chooses to deny their past can not expect to find a future.
The age of miracles is past.
Who reminds of the past and recall what has been will have his ear cut off.
Time past never returns.
He invites future injuries who rewards past ones.
He is past preaching who does not care to do well.
Two hands upon the breast, and labour is past.
The past is for God, the future for the Tsars.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
A house can't be built for the rainy season that is past.
The danger past, and God forgotten.
Learn about the future by looking at the past.
Patience, money and time bring all things to past.
Living in the past has one thing going for it; it's cheaper!
Let what is past flow away downstream.
Let the past drift away with the water.
We must go back and reclaim our past so we can move forward; so we understand why and how we came to be who we are today.
Do not anxiously hope for that which is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is already past.
Everything in the past died yesterday, and everything in the future is born today.
Four things come not back: the spoken word, the spent arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
You can be cautious about the future but not the past.
What is past is gone, what is hoped for is absent, for you is the hour in which you are.
Don't let your past dictate your future.
He who forgets his past is lost.
Dreams are related to the past but connected to the future.
Him with a clean future has a clean past.
A mill cannot grind with water that is past.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
The remembrance of past sorrows is joyful.
Things past cannot be recalled.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present; a kiss to greet the future.
Four things come not back -- the spoken word, the sped arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
Long foretold, long last; short notice, soon past.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
Sweet is the memory of past labor.
The mill does not grind with water that is past.
Speak not ill of the year until it is past.
When the danger is past God is cheated.
A mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
Water past will not turn the mill.
Danger past, God forgotten.
She hath past the discipline of a Tavern.
Shame is past the shad of your haire.
What is Past is Prologue.
Every river knows where its water would not be soaked up into the earth, and that is where it flows past.
Past the precipice, past the fears.
One favours him from whom one has in the past received a gift.
Too late to grieve when the chance is past.
Regretting the past is like chasing after the wind.
Where the heart is past hope, the face is past shame.
We judge of the present from the past.
Troy is a thing of the past.
Pain past is pleasure.
Things past cannot be recalled.
Let me tell you about my fate: it is an insult. Let me explain it to you: it is a disgrace.
Were I to tell my neighbour about my fate, he would heap insults upon me.
I looked into the water. My destiny was drifting past. I was born on an ill-fated day.
Everyone is a prisoner of her/his past.
For lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone. The flowers appear on the earth, the time of pruning the vines has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
What's past is forgotten.
We must go back and reclaim our past so we can move forward.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present.
He who keeps fleeing, flees from his own past.
Do you believe in love at the first sight or shall I walk past you again?
The mill does not grind with water that is past.
The day will come for the despot to pay.
Those who counsel do not pay.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
Live in my heart and pay no rent.
Cleaning the house will not pay the rent.
God does not pay every Saturday.
Here you do, here you pay.
A lawyer's fee and a harlot's wages are paid in advance.
The soldier is well paid for doing mischief.
A thousand regrets do not pay one debt.
Rob Peter to Pay Paul.
God heals, but the doctor gets paid.
No attention is paid to him who is always complaining.
He who does not intend to pay is not troubled in making his bargain.
Let not the tongue speak what the head may have to pay for.
Old debts are never paid, and the new ones get old easily.
My daughter, as long as you keep quiet, much money will paid for your marriage.
If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work.
Pay your debts or lose your friends.
In God we trust; all others pay cash.
You get what you pay for.
Better to pay and have little than have much and be in debt.
Compliments cost nothing, yet many pay dear for them.
Everyone must pay his debt to nature.
If we pay for the music we will take part in the dance.
It's sweet to drink but bitter to pay for it.
Take gifts with a sigh; most men give to be paid.
Love is paid with love.
Love should be paid with love.
Crime doesn't pay.
The money you dream about will not pay your bills.
Who wishes for a short Lent let him contract debts to be paid at Easter.
Credit is dead, bad pay killed it.
He who buys what he cannot pay for, sells what he would rather not.
If you want to buy love, love itself is the price you'll have to pay.
If you would have your work ill done, pay beforehand.
Bargain like a gypsy, but pay like a gentleman.
Lies never pay the toll.
A pound a fret can't pay an ounce a debt.
There is always lots of time to die and to pay.
Christ doesn't pay every friday evening.
Who borrows has to pay back his debt.
Who is a dog will get dog's pay.
As you pay the price with the fertilizer, the hoe and pruning determines the harvest of the olives.
Who doesn't intend to pay, signs any contract.
The back has to pay for what the ears didn't hear.
He who comes for the inheritance is often made to pay for the funeral.
God does not pay weekly, but He pays at the end.
Money is truthful. If a man speaks of his honor, make him pay cash.
As you began the dance you may pay the piper.
Sorrow will pay no debts.
If you don't pay a servant his wages, then he will pay himself.
A pound of care will not pay a pound of debt.
I paid a goat because I blaabed.
If you would be a good judge, pay attention to what everyone says.
Pay what you owe and you will know what you are worth.
Old debts are not paid, and new ones are left to get old.
The throat must pay for what the tongue may say.
It may not pay to weigh everyone in the same scales.
Good connections should pay.
It does not pay to talk a lot.
Only fools pay retail.
Never pay more for an acquisition than you have to.
You pay attention to your fek'lhr and I will pay attention to mine.
Quick to borrow is always slow to pay.
Pay beforehand if you would have your work poorly done.
The humble pay for the mistakes of their betters.
God cures, and the doctor gets paid.
Eat with your mouth, pay with your back.
The mouth makes debts, but the arms pay.
Despise learning and make everyone pay for your ignorance.
One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in debt to those who are kind.
A man and a goat can be friends but it would be foolishness for the goat to pay the first visit.
A severely under paid hungry teacher in a renovated, well-equipped classroom, can perform just as well as a bird without feathers can do in a hanging, decorated cage.
You must pay the fiddler if you want to dance.
Thanks is poor pay on which to keep a family.
It is better to pay and have a little left than to have much and be always in debt.
Advisers get away with it. They never have to pay the penalty for their advice.
If you dance, you must pay the piper.
Those who try to deceive may expect to be paid in their own coin.
Pay what you owe and you'll know what you're worth.
Why pay for the cow when the milk is free?
There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry.
Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them.
It is hard to pay for porridge that has been eaten.
A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for.
He who doesn't open his eyes when he buys must still open his purse to pay.
He who would have good cabbage, must pay its price.
The old pipe gives the sweetest smoke.
As they pipe to me, I will dance.
The pipe is nearer than the wife.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
A pipe of kif in the morning gives one more strength than a 100 camels in the courtyard.
Look at a leopard through a pipe.
Enough food and a pipe full of tobacco makes you equal to the immortals.
The poor must dance as the rich pipe.
One may live without one's friends but not without one's pipe.
I shall teach you to pipe into glove.
To dance according to someones pipe.
The old ones sing, the young ones pipe.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance,
When fools pipe, he may dance.
Pipe is nearer to woman.
Put that in your pipe and smoke it.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
The devil places a pillow for a drunken man to fall upon.
Away with thee, sickness, to where they make a good pillow for thee.
When in doubt of what is right, consult your pillow overnight.
A clear conscience makes a soft pillow.
Prayer is the pillow of religion.
A good conscience is a soft pillow.
A clear conscience is a soft pillow.
Men and women sleep on the same pillow, but they have different dreams.
An idle man is the devil's pillow.
Teach your son in the front garden and your wife on the pillow.
Laziness is the devil's pillow.
The best advice is found on the pillow.
Consult with your pillow.
Humour, to a man, is like a feather pillow. It is filled with what is easy to get but gives great comfort.
To take counsel of one's pillow.
The stones of my river are as soft as a pillow.
Ill-luck upon ill-luck, and a stone for a pillow.
Our pillow should be our counsellor.
A clear conscience is a soft mat (or pillow)
Take counsel of your pillow.
A clean conscience is the best pillow.
Our pillow should be our counsellor. [Sleep upon an idea.].
When the affected lady is doing well she eats her peas with a pin.
A little of anything isn't worth a pin; but a wee bit of sense is worth a lot.
He takes out a nail and puts in a pin.
Looking for a pin in the ocean.
Thou hast a head and so hath a pin.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, you'll want a pin before you die.
The rich have no heart, the lake never floats a pin.
No matter how small a pin can be a hen cannot swallow it.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck.
It's a sin to steal a pin.
Thou hast a head and so hath a pin.
Nane can mak a bore but ye'll find a pin for't.
It is hard to find a pin in the dark.
See a pin and let it lie, you'll want a pin before you die.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, bad luck you'll have all day.
There wasn't a sound to be heard. You could have heard a pin drop.
Between the "yes” and "no” of a woman you can't place a pin.
It is sin to steal a pin.
He who does not pick up a pin cares nothing for his wife.
If you want peace, prepare justice.
A harvest of peace is produced from a seed of contentment.
The best bed that a man can sleep on is peace.
If a man would live in peace, he should be blind, deaf, and dumb.
A harvest of peace grows from seeds of contentment.
Without war there can be no peace.
If our feet leave the earth we no longer live in peace.
Neither trust or contend, nor lay wagers or lend, and you'll have peace to your end.
There is little peace in that house where the hen crows and the cock is mute.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
A bad peace is better than a good quarrel.
Eternal peace lasts only until the next war.
He who marries prudence is the brother-in-law of peace.
Respect for the rights of others is peace.
Where there is love, there is peace.
Peace wins over wealth.
Neither money nor the devil can remain in peace.
Hypocrisy is the mother of peace.
Peace and tranquillity are a thousand gold pieces.
It is easier to wage war with wise enemies than be at peace with foolish friends.
A man with too much ambition cannot sleep in peace.
He who runs after good fortune runs away from peace.
He that makes a good war, makes a good peace.
Better to have bread and an onion with peace than stuffed fowl with strife.
To a man prepared for war, peace is assured.
To the fighting man peace is sure.
One minute of patience can mean ten years of peace.
One minute of patience, ten years of peace.
Who holds his peace and gathers stones, will find a time to throw them.
Better an egg in peace, than an ox in war.
One may teach another to speak, but none can teach another to hold his peace.
If peace reigns in the land, a nun can govern it.
Peace won't settle where a woman rules.
If you can not find peace within yourself, it is useless to look elsewhere.
In peace be faithful; in war be valiant.
Better keep peace than make peace.
When a man finds no peace within himself, it is useless to look for it elsewhere.
Make peace with people; wage war with your sins.
Peace and harmony is great treasure.
Make peace with man and war with your sins.
If you marry wise judgment, peace will become your brother-in-law.
When you lose the rhythm of the drumbeat of God, you are lost from the peace and rhythm of life.
Better to eat beans in peace than to eat meat in distress.
You must not tell all that you know, nor judge all that you see, if you would live in peace.
True peace between nations will only happen when there is true peace within people's souls.
Inner peace and love are the greatest of God's gifts.
If you are a leader of peace, listen to the discourse of the petitioner. Be not abrupt with him; that would trouble him.
Ignorance is the peace of life.
It is better that trials come to you in the beginning and you find peace afterwards than that they come to you at the end.
Every once in a while, declare peace. It confuses the hell out of your enemies.
Peace is good for business.
Tasty food, plenty of food, food in the right time – and peace at mealtimes.
There can be no peace without understanding.
When we can't find peace in ourselves it is vain to look for it elsewhere.
A man with too much ambition cannot sleep in peace.
Even a fool, when he holds his peace, is counted wise.
May you have warmth in your igloo, oil in your lamp, and peace in your heart.
When there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
Solitude is enjoyed only when one is at peace with oneself.
He who loves peace minds his own business.
If there is beauty in character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
The world will not find rest by just saying "peace.”.
A regular fighter who discords peace is bound to be fought by his own anger.
Peace is costly but it is worth the expense.
Do something at its (right) time, and peace will accompany it.
It is better to keep peace than to make peace.
Where there is peace, god is.
If you want peace, you must prepare for war.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
The tree of silence bears the fruit of peace.
Where there is discipline there is virtue; where there is peace there is plenty.
Better one cow in peace than seven in trouble.
Peace and a well-built house cannot be bought too dearly.
Peace must be bought even at a high price.
Peace feeds, war wastes; peace breeds, war consumes.
The sword keeps the peace of the land.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
Better an unjust peace than a just war.
He who would prosper in peace, must suffer in silence.
Nobody ever bought peace but the man who hadn't got it.
Peace is worth buying.
Peace with a cudgel in hand is war.
Hear, see, and say nothing if you would live in peace.
An iron peace is better than a golden war.
Arms carry peace.
He who sweats more in peace, bleeds less in war.
Hear, see, and say nothing if you would live in peace.
The world exists on three things: truth, justice, and peace.
Whether the pitcher strike the stone or the stone the pitcher, the pitcher suffers.
Go not with every hunger to the cupboard, nor with every thirst to the pitcher.
A pitcher that goes oft to the well is broken at last.
The pitcher that goes often to the fountain leaves there either its handle or its spout.
The pitcher goes so long to the well that it breaks at last.
Dip the pitcher into the water enough and it finally breaks.
The wise adapt themselves to circumstances, as water moulds itself to the pitcher.
The pitcher that goes too often to the well is broken at last.
The pitcher will go to the well once too often.
No matter how often a pitcher goes to the water it is broken in the end.
The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves either its handle or its spout there.
One must fill the pitcher while the water is flowing.
Whether the pitcher strike the stone, or the stone the pitcher, woe be to the pitcher.
If the pitcher knocks against a stone, woe to the pitcher; and if the stone knocks against the pitcher, woe to the pitcher.
The pitcher goes so often to the well, that it leaves its handle or its mouth.
The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves either its handle or its spout there.
It's a cracked pitcher that goes longest to the well.
The pitcher which goes too often to the well gets broken.
A dog that has forced its head into a pitcher is greedy.
Put your hand in your conscience and see if it does not come out as black as pitch.
Asses sing badly, because they pitch their voices too high.
The wine-skin has its reasons for smelling of pitch.
He who touches pitch defiles himself.
He that touched pitch will be defiled.
He that touches pitch shall be defiled.
He that touches pitch defiles himself.
He who handles pitch, besmears himself.
A mouse in pitch.
It is hard work to be the mother of many pigs.
The woman had no problems so she bought some pigs.
Like a gold ring in a pigs snout is a woman without descretion.
The miller's pigs are fat but it wasn't all mouter they ate.
Never give cherries to pigs or advice to fools.
The nice apples are always eaten by nasty pigs.
The grunts of pigs never make it to heaven.
I am a gentleman and you are a gentleman; who, then, should look after the pigs?
The best pears are eaten by the pigs.
Choosy pigs never get fat.
In the matter of pigs, all is money, and in the matter of money, all are pigs.
Scholars talk books, butchers talk pigs.
Schoolmaster, stick to your books; farmer, to your pigs.
Pigs might fly lest they had wings.
Young pigs grunt as as old pigs grunted before them.
Old pigs have hard snouts.
The quiet pigs eat all the draff.
It's the quiet pigs that eat the grain.
The best pears fall into the pigs' mouths.
Who gets mixed up with garbage will be eaten by pigs.
Do not waste your ginger on pigs.
Pigs and children will turn out the way you teach them.
You do not fatten pigs with pure water.
Don't slaughter more pigs than you can salt.
Whom God loves, his bitch litters pigs.
Walk in line like the poor house's pigs 'though there was only one.
Pig owners: Simo would marry those pigs or Simo would marry the owners of that pig.
Men should worry about fame just as pigs about being fat.
Don't give cherries to pigs or advice to fools.
When pigs fly.
A priest that's made a pet of and a pig that's made a pet of are the two worst pets of all. However, all priests are different. And in our times some pigs are kept as pets.
Pigs may whistle, but they hae an ill mouth for't.
Little pigs have big ears.
It's better to pick a fight with your in-laws than with your neighbors.
To pick up in a clumsy way is stealing, to steal in a skillful way is to pick up.
Children pick up words, as pigeons peas, and utter them again as God shall please.
Don't pick a wasp out of a cream-jug.
Rejoice not at thine enemy's fall”–but don't rush to pick his up, either.
Let everyone pick his own nose.
You cannot pick up a pebble with one finger.
Never pick up what you didn't put down.
A poor man does not pick up things if does they say he stole them.
Pick your wife in the kitchen.
When a man's coat is threadbare, it is easy to pick a hole in it.
Hawk will not pick out hawk's eyes.
He that pelts every barking dog must pick up a great many stones.
Those who don't pick roses in summer won't pick them in winter either.
He who wants fruit should not pick flowers.
When water trow weh i' cyaa pick up.
When your own funeral is approaching, you don't pick and choose your grave diggers.
A rocky vinyard does not need a prayer, but a pick ax.
A crow doesn't pick out another crow's eyes.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, you'll want a pin before you die.
Never pick up what you didn't put down.
A child is an axe; when it cuts you, you still pick it up and put it on your shoulder.
Pick up a sesame seed only to lose a watermelon.
One who would pick the roses must bear with the thorns.
A dry finger cannot pick up salt.
Every time you have something good there is someone who wants you to throw it so as they can pick it.
When the eagle is dead, the crows pick out his eyes.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck.
Pick the lesser of the two evils.
My friends are like stars, pick one and it'll guide you.
He wont pick strawberries into the basket on somebody else.
Rejoice not at your enemy's fall, but don't pick him up, either.
When your enemy falls, don't rejoice - but don't pick him up either.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, bad luck you'll have all day.
Pick and choose, and take the worst.
Hawks will not pick out hawk's eyes.
Where they eat your meat let them pick the bones.
There is no lock, if the pick is of gold.
Little birds may pick a dead lion.
If you want a fine wife, don't pick her on a Sunday.
A crow doesn't pick out another crow's eyes. (A thief does not steal from another thief)
If it moves, salute it; if it doesn't move, pick it up; and if you can't pick it up, paint it.
If it moves, salute it. If it doesn't move, pick it up. If you can't pick it up, paint it.
We've abandoned our harvest to pick out hemp seeds.
When a man's coat is threadbare it is easy to pick a hole in it.
When you pick up the stick, the stealing cat gets alert.
A crow does not pick out the crow's eye.
They're a' ae sow's pick.
A crow will not pick out the eyes of another crow.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck.
He who does not pick up a pin cares nothing for his wife.
Seize the day." By Horace, Odes I,11,8, to Leuconoe: carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero ("take hold of the day, believing as little as possible in the next"). The verb "carpere" has the literal meaning "to pick, pluck," particularly in reference to the picking of fruits and flowers, and was used figuratively by the Roman poets to mean "to enjoy, use, make use of.
If God should listen to rooks, he should send a plague to horses.
Nothing is ever well done in a hurry, except flying from the plague or from quarrels, and catching fleas.
Please the eye and plague the heart.
Forgetness is the plague of knowledge.
A new doctor is a plague on the country.
An honest wife is a treasure that lasts, a sad wife is worse than the plague.
When it is God's will to plague a man, a mouse can bite him to death.
A Sunday's child never dies of the plague.
A stupid friend is a greater plague than a wise enemy.
To die in the season of plague brings no honor.
The sheep on the mountain is higher than the bull on the plain.
Speak plain -- call bread bread, and wine wine.
The abyss laughs at the plain.
If you don't scale the mountain, you can't view the plain.
You must scale the mountain if you want to view the plain.
Language is not plain.
Every beauty has some fault and every plain jane some grace.
Plain oil cures every pain.
Flattery sits in the parlour when plain dealing is kicked out of doors.
There are only two kinds of women, the plain and the coloured.
A dragon will be teased by a shrimp in a shoal water; a tiger will be bullied by a dog on a treeless plain.
The point is plain as a pike staff.
Through thick and thin, both over Hill and Plain.
An appetite is a true companion to plain bread.
A rich man will get his carriage over the mountains, a poor man will lose his way on a level plain.
Flattery sits in the parlour when plain dealing is kicked out of doors.
Make every bargain clear and plain, that none may afterwards complain.
Meat that the cat brings in never gets to your plate.
When a plate is covered, its contents are hidden.
If eating poison finish up the plate.
If you want to know how long a man's tongue is, let him use his mouth to lick honey from a plate.
She wipes the plate with the cat's tail.
From plate to mouth you miss the soup.
Beautifully decorated plate won't feed anyone.
A golden plate is worth nothing to me when my blood is spilled on it.
Better a dove on the plate than a woodgrouse in the mating place.
A united family eats from the same plate.
A man who touches the bottom of a soup plate with a ball of foofoo is no longer searching for soup.
When there is little bread at table put plenty on your plate.
Nothing stimulates the appetite like little on the plate.
All state, and nothing on the plate.
The first marriage is a plate of honey, the second a glass of wine, and the third is a cup of poison.
Failing to plan is planning to fail.
Bad planning on your part does not constitute an emergency on my part.
If you are planning to travel where corn grows, you should take a sickle with you.
When planning for a year, plant corn. When planning for a decade, plant trees. When planning for life, train and educate people.
Silly toad: planning a meal of goose!
If you are planning for a year, sow rice; if you are planning for a decade, plant trees; if you are planning for a lifetime, educate people.
If you are planning for one year, grow rice. If you are planning for 20 years grow trees. If you are planning for centuries, grow men.
Failing to plan is planning to fail.
Don't throw away your nets if you catch nothing, you never know what the gods are planning next.
Perfect Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance. (a.k.a The six P's)
About planning ahead.
Playing with fire will eventually turn bitter.
So many years playing the marquise and she still doesn't know how to wave a fan.
If an enemy is annoying you by playing well, consider adopting his strategy.
Life is not holding a good hand; Life is playing a poor hand well.
De tune you playing no de one I dancing.
It is well to leave off playing when the game is at its best.
Playing with fire.
The cat has nine lives: three for playing, three for straying, three for staying.
The tune you are playing is not the one I am dancing to.
He who digs a pit for others falls into it himself.
If you fall into a pit, Providence is under no obligation to come and look for you.
When your neighbor's horse falls into a pit, you should not rejoice at it, for your own child may fall into it too.
A pit of the tongue cannot be covered up by the hand.
He who digs a pit will fall into it himself.
Several repeated visits to the mud pit enable the wasp to build its house.
If you are digging a pit for your enemy, don't make it too deep, for you may fall into it.
He who digs a pit for someone else, often falls into it himself.
He made a pit and digged it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
If you dig a pit for me, you dig one for yourself.
When you fall into a pit, you either die or get out.
If you've never been to a pit latrine, you will never know that cockroach is a chief.
It's unworthy to dig a new pit to fill up an old one.
Who digs a pit for others will fall in themselves.
He made a pit and dug it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
If you dig a pit for others, you might fall into it yourself.
Whoever digs a pit for his neighbor should dig it his own size.
He who digs a pit for others, will fall in it himself.
He who digs a pit for others must invariably fall into it.
The pit allows the grass to fall in.
He falls into the pit who leads another into it.
When one blind man leads several blind men, before long all will fall into a fire pit.
He who digs a pit for others, falls into it himself.
Who digs a pit will himself fall therein.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity.
If you know a lot, know enough to make them respect you, if you are stupid, be stupid enough so they can pity you.
It is better to be the object of jealousy, than of pity.
Pity the stranger, even if he is rich.
Better to be envied than pitied.
That sick man is not to be pitied who has his cure in his sleeve.
Pity him who makes an opinion a certainty.
Don't tell your complaint to one who has no pity.
Where there is no fear, there is no pity.
Better be envied than pitied.
An object of pity even to a foe.
A little help is better than a lot of pity.
What we do with pity another would call it strength.
A little help is worth a lot of pity.
Better be envied than pitied.
First endure, then pity, then embrace.
God gives his anger by weight, but his pity without measure.
Better envy than pity.
Pity the man who does wrong and is poor as well.
Pity the man who has a stranger's spancel on him.
Pity without help does little good.
Better be envied than pitied.
He who would have others pity him must pity others.
Better be envied than pitied.
Pity is akin to love.
If you lose your wife and fifteen pennies -- oh ! what a pity about the money.
Go to friends for advice; to women for pity; to strangers for charity; to relatives for nothing.
Pity without help does little good.
A little help is worth a lot of pity.
Не that always complains is never pitied.
Pity him who would burn his thiompán for you.'
A man who throws stones at himself is not to be pitied.
Lazy people have no spare time.
He who takes responsibility becomes the target of the people.
When two divorced people marry, four people get into bed.
The voice of the people is louder than the boom of a canon.
If people come together, they can even mend a crack in the sky.
If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain. If you want 10 years of prosperity, grow trees. If you want 100 years of prosperity, grow people.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Don't take rich people as examples.
When you drink milk under the palm tree, people will say that it is palm wine.
Children will tell you what they do, men what they think and older people what they have seen and heard.
Be honorable yourself if you wish to associate with honorable people.
We traded in shrouds; people stopped dying.
Seven people don't wait for one.
The radiant and well-understood speech of one person is better than the speech of a thousand people that is not.
Judge not your beauty by the number of people who look at you, but rather by the number of people who smile at you.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
People give, but don't be in a hurry to take.
If you tell people to live together, you tell them to quarrel.
Where rich people can make honest money, poor people have to steal.
Bad people don't sing.
Sadness is a valuable treasure -- only discovered in people you love.
Dogs don't love people, they love the place where they are fed.
The reason some people are stingy is also the reason they are rich.
Laughter is the shortest distance between two people.
A thousand people cannot undress a naked person.
The applause of the people is a blast of air.
There are no incurable diseases but only incurable people.
Excellent people are honored wherever they go.
If God lived on earth, people would break his windows.
People are like grass in the field: some blossom, some wither.
Even a sheet of paper is lighter when two people lift it.
People who do not break things first will never learn to create anything.
While the sun is still up, let people work that the earth may live.
People say that time goes by; time says that the people go by.
The army is the poison and the people are the water in which the poison is mixed.
People live with their own idiosyncrasies and die of their own illnesses.
If rich people could hire other people to die for them, the poor could make a wonderful living.
It is only when someone kills a madman that people will know he has relatives.
People seek out big shots as flies seek out the elephant's tail.
Some people prefer liquor, others prefer tofu, and some even like rotten salmon.
Many people count other people's faults and ignore their own.
The voluntary obedience of people depends on who is commanding them.
Worthless people blame their karma.
Sugarcane is always sweet people only sometimes so.
If you put a rope around your neck, many people will be glad to drag you by it.
A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are.
The king inherits a country - the people only hard work.
When the king reigns it is thanks to the people; when a river sings it's thanks to the stones.
Sick people are like kings.
People are like eels in the water, they wander this way and that.
People are like plants in the wind: they bow down and rise up again.
Moral people sleep well at night, but the immoral seem to get pleasure from the waking hours much more.
The trees never meet but people do.
Go with the powerful and people will kneel before you.
Three kinds of people die poor: those who divorce, those who incur debts, and those who move around too much.
People are man's medicine.
Invite people into your parlor, and they will come into your bedroom.
The master of the people is their servant.
If you give people nuts, you'll get shells thrown at you.
People who do not mend things first will never produce something.
A redeemer of people is a walker with people.
A bone does not bring itself, it is people that bring it.
The land where the stones know you is worth more than the land where the people know you.
All people have their friend and their enemy within themselves.
When you go among one-eyed people, put out your own eye.
Where there are many people, there God is.
Over-intelligent people can't find friends.
People who are asleep can't fall down.
Depend on your walking stick, not on other people.
Flattery is the best persuader of people.
Kyoto people ruin themselves for clothing. osaka people for food.
The old people are treasures to us.
The ruin of a nation begins in the homes of its people.
People working on the slope of a mountain do not look at the buttocks of one another.
What people get by hard work they don't get for their neighbours.
You can mirror something from other people; you can only give out that which is your own.
Cautious, careful people, always casting about to preserve their reputations, can never effect a reform.
There are two kinds of perfect people: those who are dead, and those who have not been born yet.
The people who talk the best are not the only ones who can tell you the most interesting things.
Some people want to be praised for the rest of their lives for what they have done well for one day.
People can no more be judged by their looks than the sea can be measured in bushels.
One measures the towers by their shadows and great people by those who envy them.
Ask no favors and people everywhere are affable; if you don't drink, it doesn't matter what price wine is.
The needle dresses people but stays naked itself.
Smart people get the point from a single hint.
For tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it today.
People who drink to drown their sorrows, should be told that sorrow knows how to swim.
People should not talk while they are eating or pepper may go down the wrong way.
A bitter centipede if eaten in a pleasing berry pie will taste sweet.
A handful of dirt is pleasing if it's your own land.
A beautiful woman who is pleasing to men is good only for frightening fish when she falls into the water.
Love's quarrels oft in pleasing concord end.
Beautiful things are never as beautiful as those that are pleasing.
Brevity is pleasing.
By pleasing, while we instruct.
He gives well and bountifully who accompanies the gift with a pleasing look.
All love justice in the houses of others to no one is it pleasing in his own house.
A much-used plow shines; stagnant waters stink.
Talk doesn't plow the field.
When it rains in the morning, take the plow and start sowing; when it rains between Vespers and nightfall, put on your boots.
Hand plow can't make furrows by itself.
Make your bargain before beginning to plow.
Break the soil when it's moist, plow with the warm weather, and do the seeding on time.
Plow with the oxen and seed with the cows at their own pace.
One with a plow ? seven with a spoon.
If one does not plow, there will be no harvest.
The dog barks, the pig eats.
It's not the fault of the pig, but of the one who scratches his back.
You can't stop a pig from wallowing in the mud.
A pig on credit makes a good winter and a bad spring.
To him who gives you a pig you may well give a rasher.
He wanted to cure a healthy pig and ended up with a sick one.
The frost drives the pig home.
Even a blind pig finds an acorn every once in awhile.
If you want to eat pig, choose one which is fat.
If you choose to make friendship with a pig you must be prepared to live in the mad.
In times of need a pig is called uncle.
Lead a pig to the Rhine, it remains a pig.
"great cry and little wool,” said the fool, when he sheared a pig.
There are three creatures beyond ruling – a mule, a pig and a woman.
A woman like a pig, a sleepy-headed woman.
Don't give cherries to a pig; don't give advice to a fool.
He got it from nature as the pig got the rooting in the ground.
The pig in the sty doesn't know the pig going along the road.
The worst pig eats the best acorn.
Every pig has it Martinmas.
Lean meat from a fat pig.
You will see something as surely as a pig will see heaven.
The worst pig often gets the best pear.
When I'm dead, everybody's dead – – and the pig too.
A clever pig extracts a deep root.
A hungry pig dreams of acorns.
To buy the pig in the bag.
A pig that is used to wallowing in the mud looks for a clean person to rub against.
When a miser dies, the heirs feel as happy as when they kill a pig.
A silent pig digs the deepest root.
When a pig has eaten its full, it pushes over its trough.
You will not choke on big words and pig fat.
During April rainfalls the pig gets butchered, the oxen gets fattened and the sheep laughs.
Don't buy a pig in a poke.
It hits like a grip on a pig.
If you pull one pig by the tail all the rest squeak.
A goose doesn't befriend a pig.
A pig in a parlor is still a pig.
A son-in-law and a pig will show you the way only once.
A pig bought on credit grunts all the year.
Child's pig, father's pork.
Brawl with a pig and you go away with his stink.
We don't kill a pig every day.
While wrangling over a quarter of pig, you can lose a flock of sheep.
It does not always rain when a pig squeals.
A pig never smells its own stink.
You can't grease a "pig" so many times that he can't be greased one more time.
More hideous than a pig.
A full pig in the sty doesn't find the hungry one going by.
The world's quiet and the pig is in the sty.
There are many ways of killing a pig other than by choking it with butter.
If you would be happy for a week take a wife; if you would be happy for a month kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life plant a garden.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter a pig and you will be happy for a month; become a priest and you will be happy for the rest of your life.
Give your friend a pig and your enemy a peach.
He that has but one pig easily fattens it.
The end of the pig is the beginning of the sausage.
The lazy pig does not eat ripe pears.
By the first glass a lamb, the second a lion, and the third a pig.
Where pig is proffered, go round with a sack.
He keeps silent, like a deaf pig in the wheat-field.
Many geese overpower a pig.
We don't kill a pig every day.
What can you expect from a pig but a grunt?
Quhair the Pig breaks, let the shels lie.
Who lets a woman slap him is as humiliated as if a pig has bitten.
A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat.
The pig says: give to me and I'll give to you, don't tell me how long it's taking.
A skinny pig is better than a fat chicken.
The crow flies sky high and lands on a pig.
When the pig has had a bellyful it upsets the trough.
The miser and the pig are of no use till dead.
You cannot have the bacon and the pig at the same time.
Seat the pig at the table - she'll put [her] legs on the table.
"Your feet are crooked, your hair is good for nothing," said the pig to the horse.
The worst pig gets the best acorn.
Play will get its place, said the old hag from Tuulos when a pig took her nose.
I'm more beautiful than you compared to a pig.
Pig owners: Simo would marry those pigs or Simo would marry the owners of that pig.
Pig and wife are the tamest domestic animals.
Don't buy a pig in a sackǃ.
The world's quiet and the pig is in the sty.
A spear is only against a pig; against a human being it is painful.
The young pig must often suffer for what the old sow did.
A priest that's made a pet of and a pig that's made a pet of are the two worst pets of all. However, all priests are different. And in our times some pigs are kept as pets.
The miller has a fat pig, but I've no idea by whose grain it is fed.
A piece of incense may be as large as the knee, but unless burned emits no fragrance.
If Nakedness promises you a piece of cloth, ask him his name.
He who has been bitten by a snake fears a piece of string.
Give an extra piece of cake to a stepchild.
When you take a knife away from a child, give him a piece of wood instead.
When you chop off a snake's head all you are left with is a piece of rope.
Rather a piece of bread with a happy heart than wealth with grief.
The tongue is the worst piece of meat in the world.
A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture.
A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam which his mother puts into his palm.
A viper without fangs is like a piece of rope.
An adder with its poisonous fangs taken out is nothing more than a piece of rope.
A fool carveth a piece of his heart to every one that sits near him.
The virtue of silence is a great piece of knowledge.
When the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox.
You can give a piece of advice, but not good luck along with that.
Who is a piece of stick in youth will be a block of wood in old age.
If you call a piece of wood ‘child', you can never use it to light fire since it has become so precious.
Give a naked man a piece of cloth and he will say it is too thick.
With a piece of bread in your hand you'll find paradise under a pine tree.
What is taken for oneself is usually not a small piece.
When a once-beautiful piece of cloth has turned into rags, no one remembers that it was woven by Ukwa master weavers.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
The clog and amida are both from the same piece of wood.
Those at piece, work for it.
Once bitten by a snake you feel suspicious even when you see a piece of rope.
The teeth that cannot move in unison cannot bit a piece of meat.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
A potter eats from a broken piece of his pots.
A piece of churchyard fits everybody.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all sit near him.
Write the bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece of marble.
A piece of bread in the pocket is better than a feather in the hat.
A piece of bread in your pocket is better than a feather in your hat.
A good piece steil is worth a penny.
Charge nae mair shot than the piece ‘ll bear.
A piece of iron can only become what the blacksmith says it should become.
Give a piece to the raven and he'll come again.
A piece of meat with eyes.
A piece of land is not a little thing.
zzzzOne person enjoys a piece of hard cheese, a second a spun out prayer chant, and a third a door to the street.
From my gossip's bread a large piece for my godson.
If the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox.
A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam.
The world is like an old building on the banks of a stream – it carries away piece by piece; in vain you stop it with a handful of earth.
A piece of churchyard fits everybody.
That's the piece a step-bairn never got.
The man is like the owner of Europe, 'though as far as I know I haven't sold a piece.
Instead of having a handful of gold, it [could be better] to have a handful of earth (i.e. a piece of land).
It is pleasant to cut thongs on another man's leather.
A starving crocodile is never pleasant.
Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bone.
An accidental meeting is more pleasant than a planned one.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
It is pleasant driving when there is no danger of upsetting.
A misty winter brings a pleasant spring, a pleasant winter a misty spring.
Gain has a pleasant odor, come whence it will.
Life is not a continuum of pleasant choices, but of inevitable problems that call for strength, determination, and hard work.
A rainy morn oft brings a pleasant day.
Medicine that heals is not always sweet and caring words are not always pleasant.
It's pleasant to look on the rain, when one stands dry.
A good-looking man is pleasant to look at, but it is easier to live with an amusing one.
The canoe ride is pleasant when the paddler is skilled.
Because friendship is pleasant, we partake of our friend's entertainment; not because we have not enough to eat in our own house.
Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.
Truthful words are seldom pleasant.
Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant, it is still blown by a man's mouth.
It is the end of the shahnameh that is pleasant.
A pleasant think never comes too soon.
War is pleasant to those who have not tried it.
The fish lead a pleasant life, they drink when they like.
To sin in secret is more pleasant than having pleasure in the open.
That is pleasant to remember which was hard to endure.
He combines the pleasant with the useful.
A pleasant companion on a journey is as good as a postchaise.
The prolonged visit of no guest is pleasant.
The most pleasant cruise is near the land; the most inviting walk near the sea.
Learning has sour roots, but pleasant fruits.
War appears pleasant to those who have never experienced it.
Furrows are pleasant to a threshing ox.
Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant.
Ye pleasant men, are ye aware of the nature of children? What we have is theirs, but what they get is not ours.
Make the night night, and the day day, and you will have a pleasant time of it.
Whatever the man in authority said, it was not pleasant.
Whatever the man in authority said, it was not right.
It is pleasant enough going afoot when you lead your horse by the bridle.
Law is like a shaft of a cart, it points wherever you turn it to.
A house full of people is a house full of different points of view.
A house full of people is filled with different points of view.
When a finger points at the moon, the imbecile looks at the finger.
The shortest distance between two points is a straight line.
Possession is nine points of the law.
Short hose must have long points.
Wherever Burundi points the finger, a house is built.
Possession is eleven points of the law.
Don't plant a seed in the sea.
Plant rice when the ground is ready; pursue women when you feel passion.
If you plant, you harvest.
Ices plant a new, one.
Love is like a rice plant; transplanted, it can grow elsewhere.
Love is just like rice - plant it elsewhere and it grows.
If you plant grass, you won't get rice.
If you debark a tree don't expect it to live again; you can only plant another of its kind.
If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.
Plant each day and you will eat.
A society grows great when old men plant trees in whose shade they know they shall never sit.
In a treeless country, the castor-oil plant is a big tree.
Patience is a plant that does not grow in everyone's garden.
One cannot go back to the farmer from whom one borrowed seed-yams to plant to say that the beetles have eaten up the seed-yams.
He who does not know how to plant will plant in november.
When you uproot vines as you plant vines, you'll never harvest the grapes.
If you don't plant, you get nothing.
The best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago; the next best time is now.
Do not plant a tree with its root upward.
A man who prides himself on his ancestry is like the potato plant, the best part of which is underground.
Don't plant pumpkins where they never sprouted.
A wife is like clothes and banana plant needs weeding.
Plant the crab-tree where you will it will never bear pippins.
If you are planning for a year, sow rice; if you are planning for a decade, plant trees; if you are planning for a lifetime, educate people.
If you plant melons, you get melons; if you plant beans, you get beans.
The plant God favors will grow even without rain.
When you plant a yam it produces another yam.
If you want to sit under a shade in your old age plant a tree now.
Eating what you plant is better than begging for leftovers.
Make a garden or plant, and a man is happy for life.
Confidence is a plant of slow growth.
Our parents planted so we ate, and we plant for our children to eat.
Love's plant must be watered with tears, and tended with care.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
Walnuts and pears you plant for your heirs.
If you would be happy for a week take a wife; if you would be happy for a month kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life plant a garden.
It is not spring until you can plant your foot upon twelve daisies.
If hunger forces a farmer in a particular year to eat both his yam tubers and the seed-yams, the succeeding years would still be worse because he would have no yams to eat and none to plant.
If you plan for a year, plant kalo. If you plan for ten years, plant koa. If you plan for one-hundred years, teach the children.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a farmer too lazy to plant his field.
A plant loses its blossom as soon as it bears fruit.
The mouth who ate the seeds asks, ‘now what shall I plant?'.
He that will bare-foot go must not plant a garden of thistle.
What you plant, that you will harvest.
Judge each day not by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.
Lizard no plant corn but him hab plenty.
What [you] plant, [you] will harvest.
You think you are strong like the corn plant, yet the bean vine is already choking you.
Don't plant more garden than your wife can care for.
When planning for a year, plant corn. When planning for a decade, plant trees. When planning for life, train and educate people.
A stupid turtle-dove is sometimes surprised by night for wanting one more grain of castor-oil plant.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago.
If your vision is for a year plant wheat, if you vision is for a decade plant trees, and if your vision is for a lifetime plant people.
A climbing plant does not stay alone.
Confidence is a plant of slow growth.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
A plant as sweet as a husband does not grow in the steppe.
Plant the crab-tree where you will, it will never bear pippins.
Friendship is a plant that must be often watered.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
In politics, a man must learn to rise above principle.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
Those who do not do politics will be done in by politics.
Politics is a rotten egg; if broken, it stinks.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
There is only eight years between success and failure in politics.
Dirty like politics.
Politics is a rotten egg if broken, it stinks.
Forgetting the cow, when going out to plough.
Nobody will plough the land except its cows.
Plough your furrows deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
Cheating is the chapman's cart and plough.
You'll never plough a field by turning it over in your mind.
Flies plough the ox' horns.
Where shall the ox go, and not have to plough?
He that by the plough would thrive, Himself must either hold or drive.
No need to plough and sow madmen, they grow by themselves.
The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.
Whither shall the ox go, where he will not have to plough?
Where shall the ox go and not plough?
When the plough enters a house, so does the condition of the family become vile.
A man must plough with such oxen as he hath.
To plough a straight furrow, never look back.
Weil worth aw, that gars the plough draw.
The priest to his book, the peasant to his plough.
A used plough shines, standing water stinks.
You should never stop the plough to kill a mouse.
Every one to his own calling, and the ox to the plough.
He that counts all costs will never put plough in the earth.
Plough deep, while sluggards sleep; and you shall have corn to sell and keep.
Plough wet or dry, and you will not have to kiss your neighbour's breech.
Plough or not plough, you must pay your rent.
Plough deep whilst sluggards sleep, And you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
Many can drive an ox; few can plough.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
The plough gets not well if the ploughman hold it not.
Weil worth aw, that gars the plough draw.
Learn politeness from the impolite.
Politeness travels on short fares.
Politeness pleases even a cat.
Nothing is more noble than politeness, and nothing more ridiculous than ceremony.
Too much politeness is impertinent.
Too much politeness conceals deceit.
Politeness wins the confidence of princes.
Politeness is what warmth is to wax.
Punctuality is the politeness of kings.
Poke a bush, a snake comes out.
Never poke a jaguar with a short stick.
Don't buy a pig in a poke.
You may poke a man's fire after you've known him for seven years.
It is easy to poke another man's fire.
He buys a cat in a poke.
Never buy a pig in a poke.
Ye breed of the Millers dog, ye lick your lips ere the poke be open.
It is kindly that the poke fair of the Herring.
Never poke a jaguar with a short stick.
It's your own lantern; don't poke holes in the paper.
Don't think about the pig until it's in the poke.
Failing to plan is planning to fail.
Need teaches a plan.
Coincidence defeats a well-laid plan.
In his heart a man may plan his course but God determines his every step.
An accidental meeting is more pleasant than a planned one.
Before you plan to improve the world, look around your own house three times.
Any plan is bad that cannot be changed.
A man can not sit down alone to plan for prosperity.
Plan your life as though you were going to live forever, but live today as if you were going to die tomorrow.
Plan your life at New Year's eve, your day at dawn.
Void of a long-term plan will bring you trouble soon.
Failing to plan is planning to fail.
Plan your year in the spring, your day at dawn.
The camel and his driver -- each has his own plan.
If you fail to plan, you plan to fail.
Dreams are what you hope for; reality is what you plan for.
Let the sword decide only after the plan has failed.
A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.
It's a bad plan that cannot be changed.
Things don't always go as planned.
If you plan for a year, plant kalo. If you plan for ten years, plant koa. If you plan for one-hundred years, teach the children.
To have security, plan ahead.
If you fail to plan, then you plan to fail.
The beasts plan ahead before entering the fields.
The best time to plan a tree is 20 years ago. The second best time is now.
Gossip about a person and his shadow will appear.
The person who does not listen to an elder's advice gets his or her leg broken.
Honorable is the person who is aware of his power, yet refrains from inflicting bad things onto others.
A person stands next to a shade not next to words.
A person who misses a chance and the monkey who misses its branch -- both cannot be saved.
One should rise to a person who sees you sitting.
When a man sleeps, it is the same person when he wakes up.
There are four things every person has more of than they know; sins, debt, years, and foes.
A lonely person is at home everywhere.
A person consists of his faith. Whatever is his faith, even so is he.
The dying person cannot wait for the shroud to be woven.
The person that learns well also defends himself well.
The person who has been a slave from birth does not value rebellion.
Never promise a poor person, and never owe a rich one.
In a quarrel, the higher voiced person will win.
The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it.
You are as many a person as languages you know.
A poor person isn't he who has little, but he who needs a lot.
The covetous person is always in want.
The well fed person doesn't understand the hungry one.
A thousand people cannot undress a naked person.
A lucky person is someone who plants pebbles and harvests potatoes.
A pretty person looks pretty in every clothing.
One person can burn water, while another can't even burn oil.
Any man can be a father, but it takes a special person to be a dad.
Beware of the person with nothing to lose.
The person who gets stuck on trivial prosperity will not attain great prosperity.
A person worries about the past, distresses about the present, and fears the future.
The person who only accepts friends without faults will never have any real friends.
Beware of the person who gives you advice according to his own interests.
The awkward person breaks the board in riding on the surf.
Rain falls on everyone, but one person gets wetter than the rest.
An understanding person needs only half a word.
A Party member is an active person.
A person does not seek luck; luck seeks the person.
A person changing his clothing always hides while changing.
The person who knew you when you were young will seldom respect you as an adult.
There's nothing worse for an intelligent person than to put a fool beside him.
A diligent person will soon prosper.
The blind person never fears ghosts.
The blind person is not afraid of ghosts.
An absent person has his excuse.
The person who is not ashamed does whatever he wants.
A person with a wound on his head keeps touching it.
The person who recognizes his major mistakes is on the road to wisdom.
The person who has not traveled widely thinks his or her mother is the best cook.
Don't try to make someone hate the person he loves, for he will still go on loving, but he will hate you.
Someone who is pointing his finger to another person is not always aware that the four remaining fingers are pointing in his direction.
A greedy person and a pauper are practically one and the same.
A beautiful person might not have a beautiful life.
If someone transports dung and does not eat it, it should not be concluded that he is an honest person.
A sick person is a prisoner.
Many are the eyes of the person whose spouse commits adultery.
A person does not objects to being called, he objects to what he is called for.
He who riducules a deformed person becomes deformed himself.
A noisy person is harmless.
A hasty person misses the sweet things.
A person is asked about his dress not what he has eaten.
The person who admits ignorance shows it once; the one who tries to hide it shows it often.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight.
As to flowers, when half open; as to sake, when a person is half tipsy.
An accomplishment sticks to a person.
It's hard to know the quality of a person, or a watermelon.
A healthy person who begs for food is an insult to a generous farmer.
It is not only one person who bathes in the witch's water.
Do not trust a person who claims to be honest, and never trust exaggerated friendliness.
A person of high principles is one who can watch an entire chess game without making a comment.
Wealth belongs to the person who enjoys it and not to the one who keeps it.
Fear the person who doesn't fear God.
The person who is cornered will fight.
Even if a knife is made of silver, a person won't stab his own heart with it.
When God gives, he doesn't ask whose son a person is.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely.
At that particular time a mad person gives you something take it immediately before he changes is mind.
The house roof fights the rain, but the person who is sheltered ignores it.
The smoke caused by meat which is roasted does not cause pain in the eyes of a hungry person.
A person who talks about his inferiors hasn't any.
He left us and we rejoiced; then an even more unbearable person came.
The person who predicts the future is lying, even when he is right.
The person who pours water to other is the last one to drink.
You need a brother, without one you're like a person rushing to battle without a weapon.
An uneducated person is like an unpolished mirror.
No person can like all, or be liked by all.
Death is in front of the old person and at the back of the young person.
The full person does not understand the needs of the hungry.
The person who doesn't scatter the morning dew will not comb gray hairs.
A poor person is often worthy.
Kindness can pluck the whiskers of a lion.
Every hare may pluck the dead lion's mane.
Old birds are hard to pluck.
he tried to pluck under her/his eyebrow, but blinded the eye.
Pluck the magpie, and don't make her scream.
Don't pluck the apple while it is green; when it is ripe it will fall of itself.
Feed a crow and it will pluck out your eyes.
Pluck flowers as they bloom; wait and you'll have only the twigs.
If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower.
Pluck not a courtesy in the bud.
It is not easy to pluck hairs from a bald pate.
Though we may pluck flowers by the way we may not sleep among flowers.
Pluck the rose and leave the thorns.
We have a craw to pluck.
Ticks and money are difficult to pluck out.
Pluck it from among the thistles, and we will take it off your hands.
Not every one may pluck roses.
Seize the day." By Horace, Odes I,11,8, to Leuconoe: carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero ("take hold of the day, believing as little as possible in the next"). The verb "carpere" has the literal meaning "to pick, pluck," particularly in reference to the picking of fruits and flowers, and was used figuratively by the Roman poets to mean "to enjoy, use, make use of.
There's no place like home.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
The nile has no resting place it wanderes around carrying a log.
Don't dirty the place where you have eaten.
Every one has his place: the dead in the cemetery and the living at the table.
Dogs don't love people, they love the place where they are fed.
A dove has no place amongst the crows.
When water stays at one place, it rots.
The world is a big place but there is so little room in it.
At a round table there is no dispute about place.
If you want a well, only dig in one place.
His money takes the place of wisdom.
If you wish to know what a man is, place him in authority.
This world is a harsh place, this world.
If you find the residents of a place worshipping a donkey, bring the beast some grass.
Once deep pools, now a crossing place.
Don't cough in a hiding place.
No snowflake ever falls in the wrong place.
However high you lift the kid goat, you place it gently on the ground.
If you dig a hole to bury a person but instead of burying that person you may be the one to be buried in this place.
The one who shows off himself in every place will one day search for where to hide.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
A poor man would like to have some fun, but he cannot find the right place.
Better sit beside him than in his place.
A man lives long in his native place.
Many a sudden change takes place on a spring day.
It's just a wisp in place of a brush.
The one who left, lost his place.
He who goes out to sea loses his place.
The ox that tossed me threw me into a good place.
In a place without dogs they teach the cats to bark.
A woman's place is in the home.
Wait time and place to take your revenge, for it is never well done in a hurry.
Without other people's companionship, even paradise would be an unlikable place.
The best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm.
It is better to be naked in your place than to be a pasha with strangers.
To find your place in life is easier than to occupy it.
A spacious ground is the right place to demonstrate one's skill in wrestling.
Malta would be a nice place, if every knight were a tree.
Rather free in a foreign place than a slave back home.
Birds of the same colour fly to the same place.
While travelling, the load settles in place.
In the place a donkey dies, fur remains.
Happiness is a place between too little and too much.
Money isn't everything, but it's way ahead of whatever is in second place.
A miser's money takes the place of wisdom.
Lightning never strikes the same place twice.
To leave a place is to die a little.
Those who are discontent to remain in one place will not earn much.
Better a dove on the plate than a woodgrouse in the mating place.
No smoke will come out from a place where there is no fire.
I am in a place where three ways meet.
To place yourself under an obligation is to sell your liberty.
The place of an uninvited guest is behind the door.
A goat never grazes in the same place.
Words are sweet, but they never take the place of food.
Whatever the type of firewood found in a place, it is usually good enough for the people of that place to cook with.
Never place friendship above profit.
Like the cat in the tree, getting caught up in the chase can leave us in an awkward place.
The place where you are happy is better than the place you were born.
We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through. Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love... and then we return home.
We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through.
I won't tie up the mule in a horse's place, says the widow.
A well educated man always has a kind word to say about the place where he spends the night.
It's by following his friends that a crab lost its hiding place.
A narrow place can contain a thousand friends.
A good place you don't go to is a good place: if you go too often, it isn't a good place any longer.
A bird that imitates others does not get used to a place.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you visit a place where the chief himself sits on floor.
He who governs by his moral excellence may be compared to the Pole star which abides in its place while all other stars bow towards it.
Better be kind at home than burn incense in a far place.
A good breakfast cannot take the place of the evening meal.
If you stay long enough in one place the whole world passes you by.
A person who has not secured a place on the floor should not begin to look for a mat.
If all snakes live together in one place who would approach them.
If you were in a place you take care of it has if it where yours.
Even when you dig a soft place, you still leave the garden.
A goat does not always graze in the same place.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you are visiting a place where the chief sits on the floor.
Life is like a boat you move on when you paddle and stay in the same place if not.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
There's no place like home.
A rabbit is never caught twice in the same place.
The dictionary is the only place where success comes before work.
The happiest place in the world to live is within one's income.
He quits his place well that leaves his friend there.
The darkest place is under the candlestick.
A woman's place is in the home.
Any port in a storm.
With everything Messina has the port, but for beautiful Palermo it is always just an orchard.
Fresh port and new wine, send a Christian to the churchyard.
Sailors have a port in every storm.
Any port in a storm.
The worse the passage the more welcome the port.
If Bastelica had a port, Ajaccio would be its garden.
Don't quote your proverb 'til you bring your ship to port.
If Catania had a port, Palermo would be dead.
No wind can do him good who steers for no port.
One living pope is better than ten dead.
After one pope another is made.
The pope and a peasant know more between them than the pope alone.
Where the Pope is there is Rome.
At fifty a man is either the Pope or a fool.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving with the Pope.
It makes a difference if the pope is on your side.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving against the Pope.
We cannot all be Pope of Rome.
Death spares neither Pope nor beggar.
Three are powerful: the Pope, the king, and the man who has nothing.
He who has the Pope for a cousin soon becomes a Cardinal.
Ye may not sit in Rome, and strive with the Pope.
While we are the Pope we'll pontificate; who knows if we'll be Pope another time.
If you live in Rome, don't quarrel with the Pope.
In a conclave many go in as a pope but come back out as the cardinal they were when they went in.
He who wishes to live at Rome must not quarrel with the pope.
The body of the pope takes up no more room than the sexton's.
Not all porridge cooked is eaten.
When it rains porridge the beggar has no spoon.
A lovelorn cook over-salts the porridge.
Who eats bread with barley porridge will be sent to siberia.
Marriage is not just a porridge that you spit out if it's too hot.
Too many cooks oversalt the porridge.
As you cooked the porridge, so must you eat it.
If there is no caviar one eats porridge.
As porridge benefits those who heat and eat it, so does a child benefit those that rear it.
Be careful when you are sharing a calabash of porridge with a toothless man.
It is hard to pay for porridge that has been eaten.
Crumb not your bread before you taste your porridge.
Walk like the cat around hot porridge.
The glow-works light the nights, but more so the night that their mother prepares porridge.
Fly fly ladybug under the big stone, there is your dad, your mom will cook porridge for you.
Porridge is food for the toothless.
Poor folks are glad of porridge.
One cannot drink porridge without getting some on his moustache.
By asking for the impossible we obtain the possible.
If you wanted obedience command with what is possible.
It is possible for a ram to kill a butcher.
Never fight an enemy whilst it is possible to cheat him.
From several possible events, the less worse happened.
When a fire starts from the shrine, no precaution can be possible.
If you want to keep your credit you must use it as little as possible.
'tis possible if true.
It is impossible to find a man who has everything, but it is possible tofind one who enjoys the things he has.
God does not ask to withstand more than is possible.
For those who believe, no proof is necessary. For those who don't believe, no proof is possible.
In life, it is always possible to reach agreement in the end.
It is possible to kill a man but it is impossible to kill his name.
With God all things are possible.
A hoe made small from loving work came to visit and together we cultivated our relationship. When united everything is possible.
In a no-win situation where all the possible solutions present has terrible consequences.
All's for the best in the best of all possible worlds.
God does not ask to withstand more than is possible.
All things are possible with god.
Seize the day." By Horace, Odes I,11,8, to Leuconoe: carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero ("take hold of the day, believing as little as possible in the next"). The verb "carpere" has the literal meaning "to pick, pluck," particularly in reference to the picking of fruits and flowers, and was used figuratively by the Roman poets to mean "to enjoy, use, make use of.
All things are possible with God.
The buyer buys for as little as possible the seller sells for as much as possible.
A great position entails great responsibility.
As soon as the monkey has climbed a tree, it will start abusing from its elevated position.
If your part of the battlefield is covered with thorns, you do not leave your position and go to stand where the ground is good.
A family is like a thick forest, often from outside its dense, when your inside each tree has its own position.
Those who master to climb trees with their teeth are in better position to tell which barks are bitter.
Those in a high position can be seen from far away.
He refused to carry on in a leading position.
God has taken him to a high position.
Heaven above, earth below, and his own position firmly fixed.
What is an exalted position to a low fellow but a golden ring in a swine's snout?
It is the essence of good taste to do that which is consistent with our position.
As soon as the monkey has climbed a tree, it will start abusing from its elevated position.
From the miseries of others he fears for his own position.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
Truth often hides in an ugly pool.
Why would a pool that doesn't have water need so many frogs?
The pool has dried up, and the fish is in trouble.
The frog will jump back into the pool, although it sits on a golden stool.
It is better to go home and make your net than to gaze longingly at the fish in the deep pool.
Though you seat the frog on a golden stool, he'll soon jump off again into the pool.
Two raindrops do not make a pool.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
Possession satisfies.
Good grape becomes fox's possession.
The house completed, possession defeated.
The dupe who takes possession of a lame ox is seldom recognized as a fool.
Man's only real possession is his character.
Knowledge conquered by labour becomes a possession.
Possession is nine-tenths of the game.
Possession is nine tenths of the law.
Possession is nine-tenths of the law.
Possession is nine points of the law.
Possession is as good as a title.
Possession is the grave of pleasure.
A good hope is better than a bad possession.
Better a good hope than a bad possession.
Possession and good right, with lance in hand.
Possession is eleven points of the law.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
A fool's money is not long in his pocket.
A penny in a poor man's pocket is better than two in rich man's pocket.
Your pocket is your friend.
The hands of a lawyer are always in someone's pocket.
A book is like a garden in the pocket.
With money in your pocket, you are wise, and you are handsome, and you sing well too.
A lawyer looks at you with one eye, but he looks at your pocket with two.
If the pocket is empty, the judge is deaf.
Fair words don't fill the pocket.
‘Tis too late to spare when the pocket is bare.
She is fond of him–on the side where the pocket hangs.
The three faults of drinking are: a sorrowful morning, a dirty coat, and an empty pocket.
The rich man carries God in his pocket, the poor man in his heart.
You can't put "thank you” in your pocket.
No one is hanged who has money in his pocket.
You can't keep a word of thanks in your pocket.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
The quickest way to double your money is to fold it over and put it back in your pocket.
The happiness in your pocket, don't spend it all.
By filling one's head instead of one's pocket, one cannot be robbed.
Your brother's pocket cannot keep your wealth.
The quickest way to double yur money is to fold it over and put back it in yur pocket.
A book is a garden carried in the pocket.
The devil dances in an empty pocket.
Praise without profit puts little in the pocket.
With gold in your pocket you are wise, you are handsome, and you dance well too.
A piece of bread in the pocket is better than a feather in the hat.
A piece of bread in your pocket is better than a feather in your hat.
The heaviest thing in the world is an empty pocket.
The longest road is the one that leads to your pocket.
The reserve doesn't weight your pocket.
Who wants yoghurt in winter must carry a cow in his pocket.
Handy as a pocket on a shirt.
Success is a ladder which cannot be climbed with hands in your pocket.
His money burns a hole in his pocket.
The heaviest burden is an empty pocket.
His pocket knife opens in my pocket.
Shrouds have no pocket.
Every frog has his own pond.
Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond.
There is one fish in the pond, and ten anglers on the bank.
You cannot pull a fish out of the pond without work.
A man with little learning is like the frog who thinks its pond is an ocean.
You can not know the extent of water in a pond that you have never been to.
The frog in his pond sneers at the ocean.
Even pulling a fish out of the pond requires some effort.
Every peasant is proud of the pond in his village because from it he measures the sea.
Drop by drop, it will make a pond.
The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives.
A child's lie is like a dead fish in a pond that in the end, always comes to the surface, explains his mother.
You can take a horse to the pond but you cant make him drink.
When yuh see a man fishing in a dry pond don't call he a fool.
There is no room for two dragons in one pond.
Seeking fish? Don't dive in the pond; go home and get a net.
He who has no pond must not breed crocodiles.
Do not run away from a pond of water.
It's a poor frog who doesn't play with his own pond.
It's better to be a big frog in a little pond than a little frog in a big pond.
There are always more fish in the pond.
Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond.
When all things spoke the potato said, ‘set me warm, dig me warm, eat me warm, that's all i want.'
A lucky person is someone who plants pebbles and harvests potatoes.
The Potato grows in silence, The iron corrodes in silence.
Some families are like potatoes - all that's good of them is underground.
He who boasts of his descent is like a potato: the best part is underground.
Would you have potatoes grow by the pot-side?
Rat belly full, potato have skin.
A man who prides himself on his ancestry is like the potato plant, the best part of which is underground.
The food is half the provisions, the rest is herring and potatoes.
It's easy to halve the potato where there's love.
It is always the potato of another family's boy that extinguishes the fire.
Red house and a potato patch.
Health? Very nice! But where will we get potatoes?
In the morning potatoes, in the daytime potatoes and when the cows return in the evening it's potatoes again.
Two wives, two pots of poison.
Walls have ears, and little pots too.
Small pots have big ears/handles.
Fire, fire, many pots on. and one pea in them all.
Pots take turns to sit on the fire.
A pot trader whose fortunes are all invested in her clay pots isn't much of a merchant.
Smash the pots and sink the boats.
A potter eats from a broken piece of his pots.
Only birds with long beaks can drink from deep pots.
You may cook in small pots aw well as in large ones.
Don't break your shins on your neighbors' pots.
Small pots also have ears.
Two wives are two pots full of poison.
Little pots soon run over.
If the sky falls there will be pots broken.
If ifs and ands were pots and pans there'd be no work for tinkers.
Small pots have ears too.
Nights of pleasure are short.
"with great pleasure,” says the boor, when he must.
The pleasure of finding something is worth more than what you find.
Forgiveness hides a pleasure that you can't get back from revenge.
If you are up to your knees in pleasure, then you are up to your waist in grief.
One good punch on your enemy's nose, gives more pleasure than hearing well-meaning advice from your elders.
It is a double pleasure to deceive the deceiver.
Moral people sleep well at night, but the immoral seem to get pleasure from the waking hours much more.
It is always a pleasure to greet a friend from afar.
The taste of cold water after drinking, is a pleasure that the teetotaler will never know.
Even thinking about sexual pleasure has its roots in greed.
When pleasure interferes with business, give up business.
Business first, pleasure after.
Many children and little bread is a painful pleasure.
Business before pleasure.
Pigeons are taken when crows fly at pleasure.
Pleasure is the greatest incentive to vice.
In war, hunting, and love, for one pleasure a hundred pains.
Visits always give pleasure – if not the arrival, the departure.
A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom.
A fool finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions.
Don't make a toil of pleasure.
Everyone takes his pleasure where he finds it.
If you want to know secrets, seek for them in trouble or in pleasure.
Pleasure is non-essential.
Visits always give pleasure; if not the arrival, the departure.
No pleasure without pain.
An hour of pain is as long as a day of pleasure.
Short lived pleasure is the parent of pain.
There is no pleasure that does not cause one's cheeks to tremble.
Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden.
The pleasure of doing good is the only one that will not wear out.
Work well done makes pleasure more fun.
Who pleasure gives shall joy receive.
Eat at pleasure; drink by measure.
Avoid the pleasure which will bite tomorrow.
Fly that pleasure which pains afterward.
No pleasure without pain.
Business before pleasure.
Take a young woman for the pleasure of possessing her until she is old.
Who will in time present pleasure refrain, shall in time to come the more pleasure obtain.
After pleasure comes pain.
Who is made to slave should do it with pleasure.
The greatest pleasure in life lies in doing that which people say we cannot do.
In war, hunting, and love you suffer a thousand pains for one pleasure.
We have far greater compassion for another's misfortune than our pleasure in another's good fortune.
For one pleasure a thousand pains.
In hawks, hounds, arms, and love, for one pleasure a thousand pains.
Eat with pleasure; drink with measure.
Eat bread at pleasure, drink wine by measure.
Possession is the grave of pleasure.
From short pleasure long repentance.
A fool finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions.
Much pleasure and little grief is every man's desire.
We can enjoy nothing without some one to share the pleasure.
Pleasure and pain succeed each other.
Pleasure is often the introduction to pain.
Pleasure is the bait of evil.
Pleasure often comes from pain.
Pain past is pleasure.
Sorrow follows pleasure.
The labour is in itself a pleasure.
Variety is the soul of pleasure. (Aphra Behn)
For his pleasure he got married. On his thinking it over he got divorced.
Pleasure is created. Sins are absolved. Life is rejuvenated.
A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom.
Begin with patience, end with pleasure.
I'm tired of Love: I'm still more tired of Rhyme. But Money gives me pleasure all the time. (Hilaire Belloc)
Eat with pleasure, drink with measure.
Pleasure has a sting in its tail.
But mortal bliss will never come sincere Pleasure may lead, but grief blow brings up the rear.
The vine brings forth three grapes: the first of pleasure, the second of drunkenness, the third of sorrow.
Avoid the pleasure which will bite tomorrow.
If anyone is not willing to accept your point of view, try to see his point of view.
You cannot hit the point of a needle with a fist.
God lets things go - but only to a point.
If the time has passed, there is no point in preparing.
There is no point in offering a helping hand to someone who wants to drown.
Whoever crossed the river at the fordable point, knows how deep the river is.
Smart people get the point from a single hint.
When your neighbour is wrong you point a finger, but when you are wrong you hide.
It is a great point of wisdom to find out one's own folly.
Between a woman's "Yes” and "No” there is no room for the point of a needle.
As you slide down the banister of life, may the splinters never point the wrong way.
A good denial, the best point in law.
A thorn has a small point, but the person who feels it does not forget its sting.
When you point your finger at someone, look where the other fingers point.
There's no point in whistling at an ox who doesn't want to drink.
There is no point in combing where there is no hair.
There is no point of nurturing an anger inside us. Just let it go.
Think everything carefully before committing yourself because there is no point for regretting it later.
Before the time, great courage; when at the point, great fear.
The point of the needle must pass first.
Do not only point out the way, but lead the way.
Who walks in the mud, at some point must clean his feet.
There is no point in living if we cannot take back our culture.
If you point one accusing finger at others, three fingers will point at you.
Who walks in the mud, at some point must clean his feet.
There is no need to point out the obvious.
Death is like a dress that, at some point or another, everyone has to wear.
Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.
When you shoot an arrow of truth, dip its point in honey.
Never point out the mistakes of another with a dirty finger.
The point of the thorn is small, but hw who has felt it does not forget it.
There is no point in showing the way to an old hare.
In judging others, the point of departure is always himself.
There is no point in running ones head against the wall.
Every man is mad on some point.
Take it like the bard's point.
He who stands by his point of view, must be ready to suffer hunger.
Too keen an edge does not cut, too fine a point does not pierce.
The thorn comes into the world point foremost.
You have hit the point exactly.
An atheist is one point beyond the devil.
Point at the mulberry and abuse the pagoda tree.
The point is plain as a pike staff.
He who stands by his point of view, must be ready to suffer hunger.
Water flows down the lowest point.
One sip of wine is an antidote against death, cupfuls poison life.
The army is the poison and the people are the water in which the poison is mixed.
With poison, one drop is enough.
Malice drinketh its own poison.
Do not drink poison to quench a thirst.
Grief unspoken turns to poison.
Anger of the mind is poison to the soul.
If eating poison finish up the plate.
Seeing is poison for the eyes.
A pot of milk is ruined by a drop of poison.
Another man's poison is not necessarily yours.
Poison is poison though it comes in a golden cup.
Similar to a bee: in their mouths they carry sweet honey, and in their tails poison.
Honeyed speech often conceals poison and gall.
What won't choke will fatten and clean dirt is no poison.
Why would you use poison if you can kill with honey.
Don't poison someone whom you can kill with sweets.
Even if fed milk, a snake will still emit poison.
Poison quells poison.
Running water carries no poison.
Radish is poison in the morning, food at noon and medicine in the evening.
Two wives, two pots of poison.
Do not allow anger to poison you.
To really succeed, you must enjoy eating poison.
Snakes turn milk into poison.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
The poison for a word is a word.
The cow drinks water and it turns to milk; the snake drinks water and it turns to poison.
The fangs of the green snake and the sting of a wasp don't really make poison -- that is only to be found in a woman's heart.
Fight poison with poison.
Benefits turn poison in bad minds.
Good qualities never cancel out the bad, just as sugar is no antidote for poison.
Distrust is poison to friendship.
What's one man's meat's another man's poison.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
The poison of asps is under their lips.
It is the fear of offence that makes men swallow poison.
Two wives are two pots full of poison.
A guest and a fish after three days are poison.
When the bee sucks, it makes honey, when the spider, poison.
Where the bee sucks honey the spider sucks poison.
Never take the antidote before the poison.
A soft-spoken compliment is honied poison.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
Who has honey on his tongue has poison in his mind.
Poison is booze without bread.
Butter on the tongue, poison in the heart.
Do not allow anger to poison you.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
The vicious, notwithstanding the sweetness of their words, and the honey on their tongues, have a whole storehouse of poison in their hearts.
One drop of poison infects the whole of wine.
Suspicion is the poison of friendship.
Malice itself drinks the largest part of its own poison. [Malitia ipsa maximam partem veneni sui bibit].
The goat says: "where there is blood, there is plenty of food.”.
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.
Enough is enough and sometimes plenty.
Plenty breeds pride.
He that would stop everybody's mouth needs plenty of flour.
There are plenty of preachers who don't hear themselves.
Of what use is it that the cow gives plenty of milk, if she upset the pail.
A cabin with plenty of food is better than a hungry castle.
There is plenty of corn in Castile, but he who has none, starves.
Plenty makes daintiness.
He is a fool who boasts of four things: that he has good wine, a good horse, a handsome wife, and plenty of money.
Plenty of words when the cause is lost.
Who lives in a quiet house has plenty.
If the sky were to fall we should catch plenty of larks.
There is plenty of sound in an empty barrel.
For each wise man there are plenty of fools.
The man who has plenty of means of existence, conducts himself pretty much as he himself wishes.
Plenty sits still, hunger is a wanderer.
Tasty food, plenty of food, food in the right time – and peace at mealtimes.
Plenty is like the mist.
A slipshod man wastes away in the midst of plenty.
Where there are plenty of trees there are no builders.
When we have nothing to worry about we are not doing much, and not doing much may supply us with plenty of future worries.
Poverty with security is better than plenty in the midst of fear and uncertainty.
If you rock the cradle empty, then you shall have babies plenty.
Plenty know good ale, but don't know much after that.
In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty.
Where there is discipline there is virtue; where there is peace there is plenty.
He must have plenty of butter, who would stop everybody's mouth.
Good manners and plenty of money will make my son a gentlemen.
When there is little bread at table put plenty on your plate.
Plenty brings pride.
He that has plenty of good shall have more.
Plenty, is na Dainty.
It is easy to bake where there is plenty of meal.
The man who looks after his own work has plenty to do to keep everything right.
Who has a priest at home, has plenty of food.
The horns are dry but they keep the house in plenty.
There's plenty of time to bemoan bad fortune once it arrives.
Plenty sits still, hunger is a wanderer.
He heed have plenty of meal who would stop every man's mouth.
A cow from afar gives plenty of milk.
A year of snow, a year of plenty.
After the daughter is married, then come sons-in-law in plenty.
Bad is want which is born of plenty.
In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty, In time of adversity, not one amongst twenty.
He who has plenty of pepper may season his food as he likes.
Lizard no plant corn but him hab plenty.
There are plenty of other fishes in the sea.
He who has plenty of pepper will pepper his cabbage.
Plenty makes dainty.
When the fields are flooded you'll have hunger, when they're snow covered there'll be plenty to eat.
In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty.
Don't pour away your water due to a mirage.
If you would have the lamp burn, you must pour oil into it.
Ain't no use askin' the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
There is no way you can pour water into a basket and expect the water to remain.
Happiness is like a perfume, you cannot pour it all on others without allowing a few drops to fall on yourself.
There's no use asking the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
In the presence of elderly people one must not pour water.
Pour not water on a drowned mouse.
To pour oil into fire.
Once you pour the water out of the bucket it's hard to get it back in it.
In the presence of elderly people one must not pour water.
Water and words are easy to pour but impossible to recover.
It is needless to pour water on a drown'd mouse.
Everything is formed by habit, even praying.
Far from grave, no praying.
Twenty years a child; twenty years running wild; twenty years a mature man -- and after that, praying.
A praying pirate is definitely a sign of danger.
Praying kneads no dough.
Weaving a net is better than praying for fish at the edge of the water.
Working on the land is better than praying in the desert.
Not all who fold their hands, are praying.
The spider that knows what it will gain sits waiting patiently in its web. The praying mantis is never tired waiting all day.
From a praying young man, and a fasting old man, God preserve my cloak.
Spinner, spin quietly, so as not to disturb me; I am praying.
We praised the bride, and she was found pregnant.
The lazy one is pregnant in the sowing season.
A girl only gets pregnant once.
He who longs too much for a child will marry a pregnant woman.
She who is pregnant, is pregnant-even though she wrap herself in an 'mkaja'.
A pregnant woman is not afraid if you threaten her with what you made her pregnant with.
A woman's stomach does not grow if she is not pregnant.
Walk lightly in the spring; mother earth is pregnant.
A pregnant woman cannot claim to be a virgin.
If I say, it is pregnant, If I do not say, it is not pregnant.
The mother of a fool is always pregnant.
The fool castrates himself in order that he could accuse his pregnant wife of adultery.
All women are good Lutherans - they would rather preach than hear mass.
Practice what you preach.
The wicked work harder to preach hell than the righteous do to get to heaven.
Practise what you preach.
You may preach ever so long to the wolf, he will nevertheless call for the lamb before night.
Many people preach righteousness and perform sins.
Practice what you preach.
It is easy for a man in health to preach patience to the sick.
All women are good Lutherans, they would rather preach than hear mass.
It is easy to preach fasting with a fully belly.
Not even the priest will speak, preach twice.
Don't preach, neither at home nor abroad.
It is a stupid goose that listens to the fox preach.
Practice what you preach.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
The man who can't dance says the band can't play.
Children and fools must not play with edged tools.
A good guitarist will play on one string.
You play with a snake and call it a worm.
Those who play bowls must look out for rubbers.
When you play with a lion, do not put your hand in its mouth.
The poor man and the rich man do not play together.
Turnabout is fair play.
All work and no play makes Jack filthy rich.
That is the lion's tail, do not play with it.
What is play to the strong is death to the weak.
If you play with the fool at home, he will play with you abroad.
Play not with a man till you hurt him, nor jest till you shame him.
They play till they quarrel.
Those who play the game do not see it as clearly as those who watch.
Play, play, with the beard of the father also play?
Play with an ass, and he will slap your face with his tail.
What is play to one is death to another.
Fate and free-will both play an equal role in destinies.
With the fox one must play the fox.
When wise men play mad pranks they do it with a vengeance.
It is no time to play chess when the house is on fire.
Alike children play the best.
When a man finds that he was wrong to have refused to eat, he should leave his anger and play a harp to call for harmony.
Play wid puppy, puppy lick yu mouth.
The musician who is paid in advance does not play so well.
Cards play and gamblers brag.
The girl who can't dance says the band can't play.
He that will cheat at play, will cheat you any way.
Give and take is fair play.
Cotton cannot play with fire.
Avoid bawling in conversation or in play.
Life is like a game in which God shuffles the cards, the devil deals them and we have to play the trumps.
Only birds of the same clan or species play together on the same tree.
The wolf and the dog do not play together.
When the shark laughs with the dolphin, there is a devilish spirit at play.
Rule: Never perform card tricks for the people you play poker with.
If you play with fire you get burned.
When you play the flute in zanzibar all africa dances.
Those who have free seats at the play are the first to hiss.
If you must play, decide upon three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time.
A bad habit is like fire you can't play with it and expect not to get burnt.
The same teeth that a dog uses to play it uses to bite too.
The problem with the palace attendant isn't how to steal the king's drums but where to play them from.
By the time the fool has learned to play the game, the players have dispersed.
They who play with edged tools must expect to be cut.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
It's a poor frog who doesn't play with his own pond.
Give and take is fair play.
No man can play the fool so well as the wise man.
You lose some... and you win some... and some you don't even bother to play.
The brains of a fox will be of little service if you play with the paw of a lion.
Better play a small game than to stand out.
Play alone and you're bound to win.
When you play, you may break your head.
What is play to the cat is death to the mouse.
It is bad for puppies to play with bear-cubs.
It is no child's play when an old woman dances.
equal children play best.
When the cat's away the mice will play.
Children and fools Shouldn't play with edged tools.
Better play at small game than stand out.
The cat's play is the mouse's death.
When the cat's away the mice play.
Many can pack the cards that cannot play.
Watching is a part of good play.
When the cat's away the mice will play.
Many people can pack the cards; fewer can play the game.
Don't play with the bear if you don't want to be bit.
Who knows not the game, let him not play.
The stake of the play is not beans.
Play, women, and wine undo men laughing.
Did you ever hear an ass play on a harp?
Play with your peers.
It is na play where ane greits, and another laughs.
Quhen the Play is best, it is best to lear.
The lesse play the better.
If you don't wish to have rags for clothes, don't play with a dog.
First harvest honey and wax during the day, then dance and play in the open during the evening.
The beauty of the play is to do deeds and speak little.
You may crush, bleed, stamp on and scratch me, but I won't play with fire.
If you play with a cat, you must not mind her scratch.
In life, each of us must sometimes play the fool.
You play with edged tools.
When it sees money, the flute will play itself.
When the cat's away the rats will play.
The mice will never play with the kittens.
May no lies be spoken against me in the presence of God.
Absence polishes passion, presence reinforces it.
He who spekes ill of someone close to you in your presence sends you to tell him so.
He who maligns you in your absence is afraid of your presence.
The presence of the doctor is the beginning of the cure.
As the lion said, ‘I will kill your lambs and you will remember my presence.'
Looking up we are not ashamed in the presence of heaven, nor bowing down are we ashamed in the presence of earth.
Due to the presence of fools wise people stand out.
In the presence of princes the cleverest jester is mute.
In the presence of elderly people one must not pour water.
The hen ought not to cackle in presence of the cock.
In the presence of your neighbor don't praise your wife or his.
In the presence of elderly people one must not pour water.
As the lion said, 'I will kill your lambs and you will remember my presence.'
No man is brave in the presence of a crying woman.
In the presence of an expert a lie is not uttered.
Pretend you're in great danger, and you'll find out if you have any friends.
Pretend that you are crazy, you will live.
Do not pretend to be a white fowl.
Pretend to be dead and the bull will leave you alone.
The healthy can't pretend to be sick nor can the sick pretend to be healthy.
Who can't pretend cannot govern.
Be wise, but pretend to be ignorant.
People pretend to dislike what they cannot get.
Beware of french people who pretend to quarrel with each other: they will join together to fight you.
To pretend to satisfy one's desires with worldly goods is like using straw to put out a fire.
A scared dog barks to pretend to its master but a brave dog bits to protect him.
Many desire the tree who pretend to refuse the fruit.
A fool judges people by the presents they give him.
The devil gives even rich men presents.
Presents make women affable, priests indulgent, and the law crooked.
What a prostitute earns she calls presents from her husband's friends.
Little presents maintain friendship.
We make big promises to avoid little presents.
Presents from an enemy must be received with suspicion.
Presents more burdensome than profitable.
His presents conceal a baited hook.
That person is welcome who brings presents.
A friend that you buy with presents, will be bought from you.
Cautious, careful people, always casting about to preserve their reputations, can never effect a reform.
Men make wealth, and women preserve it.
To preserve friendship, one must build walls.
Heaven preserve me from my friends.
In studying the way, realizing it is hard; once you have realized it, preserving it is hard. When you can preserve it, putting it into practice is hard.
Alcohol will preserve anything but a secret.
God preserve you from one who eats without drinking.
From a praying young man, and a fasting old man, God preserve my cloak.
From smooth water God preserve me, from rough I will preserve myself.
Practice makes perfect.
Knowledge without practice makes but half an artist.
Young man, countries practice witchcraft on one another.
Let christians practice their own religion, and jews practice theirs.
Practice what you preach.
First secure an independent income, then practice virtue.
Practice gives skill.
The achievement of all work is practice.
If we do a lot of practice we can do a good job.
In studying the way, realizing it is hard; once you have realized it, preserving it is hard. When you can preserve it, putting it into practice is hard.
Practice no vice because it's trivial; neglect no virtue because it's so.
Practice with the left hand while the right is still there.
What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.
Practice does not make perfect but a perfect practice makes perfect.
Practice makes permanent.
Practice not your art, and it will soon depart.
It is not what they profess but what they practice that makes them good.
Practice makes the master.
Prayer and practice is good rhyme.
Theory dominates practice.
No one can be an expected to be an expert at something before they have got the chance to practice it.
An ounce of practice is worth a pound of precept.
Practice makes perfect.
Men learn oratory by practice.
Practice makes the master.
Young man, countries practice witchcraft on one another.
Practice what you preach.
Tomorrow's battle is won during today's practice.
Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it.
Knowledge comes through practice.
Practice makes perfect.
If children's prayer had any effect, there wouldn't be a single teacher alive.
Patience is the most beautiful prayer.
Prayer only from the mouth is no prayer.
The prayer of the innocent has no wings.
Never give up your own old mat for a better prayer mat which you see passing.
A single prayer moves heaven.
Prayer is the pillow of religion.
Pray as though no work could help, and work as though no prayer could help.
The soul is retained in it only by the prayer.
Prayer from de mout' alone is no prayer.
He knows it as well as his Lord's Prayer.
Good deeds are the best prayer.
A good deed is the best form of prayer.
A rocky vinyard does not need a prayer, but a pick ax.
A hungry stomach makes a short prayer.
Prayer is a wish turned upward.
Prayer is food for the soul.
Prayer knocks till the door opens.
The fewer the words, the better the prayer.
Those who don't understand prayer – – let them go to sea.
Prayer and practice is good rhyme.
zzzzOne person enjoys a piece of hard cheese, a second a spun out prayer chant, and a third a door to the street.
Don't say amen to an unacceptable prayer.
A chicken's prayer doesn't affect a hawk.
A drunkard at prayer is regarded as an idol worshipper.
He has meikle prayer but little devotion.
Honest labor is a form of prayer.
More precious than our children are the children of our children.
A man's good name is as precious to him as its skin is to a tiger.
The pebble in the brook secretly thinks itself a precious stone.
You can't get at the precious sago without first breaking the bark.
A diamond on a dunghill is a precious diamond still.
If the hair was precious, wouldn't grow on the ass.
Earth is more precious than gold.
If you call a piece of wood ‘child', you can never use it to light fire since it has become so precious.
Precious things are mostly in small compass.
Do not throw a stone at the mouse and break the precious vase.
Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends.
Wisdom is more precious than rubies.
A good name is better than precious ointment.
Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends.
True friends are like diamonds, precious and rare; false ones like autumn leaves, found everywhere.
The giver makes the gift precious.
The diamond fallen into the dunghill is not the less precious for it.
For an bystander nothing is precious.
The ink of the scholar is more precious than the blood of martyrs.
There is nothing more precious than time.
You cannot forge a hammer from featherpod fluff, nor spin spidersilk from precious copper.
More precious than our children are the children of our children.
Life is precious, as the tailor said when running from the gander.
Time is precious.
A good name is better than a precious stone.
Prepare yourself for when the water comes up to your knees.
Open your door to a good day and prepare yourself for a bad one.
Prepare the umbrella before it rains.
For tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it today.
If you want peace, prepare for war.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, prepare to die.
Prepare your proof before you argue.
Prepare the fallow field well enough and you'll be free to go off and gather the hemp ties.
When you see clouds gathering, prepare to catch rainwater.
When you insult a klingon's honor, prepare for trouble.
In reviling, it is not necessary to prepare a preliminary draft.
He who never eats pumpkins with you, you prepare a few slices for him.
The future belongs to those who prepare for it.
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
In fair weather prepare for foul.
If you want peace, you must prepare for war.
prepare for the evil dog a dog who's equal to it.
If you mentioned the wolf you better prepare the stick.
Prepare a nest for the hen and she will lay eggs for you.
When the sun sets, lazy people prepare.
Prepare the sickles in May, use the sickles in June, and in July carry the sickles to the tool shed.
The way you prepare the bed, so shall you sleep.
Mirth must be indulged in to prepare the mind for more serious matters.
Unprepare to prepare, be prepared to be unprepared.
Prepare now for the solutions of tomorrow.
In fair weather prepare foul.
When its time has come, the prey goes to the hunter.
The tiger crouches before he leaps upon his prey.
All clever men are birds of prey.
The fox does not prey near his hole.
Birds of prey do not flock together.
A church without a leader is prey for the devil.
The more the fox is cursed, the more prey he catches.
It is by the strength of their number that the ants in the field are able to carry their prey to the nest.
The hunter does not lie down with the prey.
The patience of the hunter is always greater than that of the prey.
Roaring lions kill no prey.
Cultivate friends who pray for you, not prey upon you.
Birds of prey do not sing.
When the hunting dog barks it's a signal that the prey is near.
The war that has no unity will make no prey.
Every hooked beak is maintained by prey.
One man alone is prey to the wolf.
Two birds of prey do not keep each other company.
The tiger crouches before he leaps upon his prey.
Every little pot has a fitting lid.
The earth is a giant cooking pot and men are the meat therein.
From all the fish in the pot you can only make one soup.
If you watch your pot, your food will not burn.
It is the pot that boils but the dish that gets the credit.
However little you think of the elephant, you can't say it won't fill a pot.
The world is a pot, man but a spoon in it.
You don't put a wooden pot on the fire twice.
Do not put your spoon into the pot which does not boil for you.
Flies will not land on a boiling pot.
Cover up the pot, there's an eel in it.
The counterfeit image of a pot with two ears.
The pot always reveals its contents.
It's better to be the pot than the lid.
One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food.
Good stew is best to be made in an old pot.
If you have honey, don't lick the pot clean.
The pot-lid is always badly off: the pot gets all the sweet, the lid nothing but steam.
The bigger the pot the more rice will stick to it.
Don't throw out the old pot until you have the tinker makes a new one.
The brotherhood of coconuts is a meeting in the cook-in pot.
If two selfish young men sit next to a pot of water, the water spills out on the ground.
One can see it but must not say, when the master of a house passes excreta in a pot.
Until a crab finds itself in a very hot pot of soup, it will never understand that water can be both cold and hot.
Crap or get off the pot.
Money makes the pot boil.
A pot of milk is ruined by a drop of poison.
While the pot boils, friendship blooms.
The pot that boils too much loses its flavour.
A cracked pot never fell off the hook.
Flies don't light on a boiling pot.
The devil can make a pot but he can't make a lid.
A pad that breaks a pot of water does not remain on the head.
A pot that build attracts the cook.
To eat from the same pot with another man, is to take an oath of perpetual friendship with him.
Everybody joins to blame or condemn a child who overthrows the pot of soup.
If you neglect the pot, it boils over and extinguishes the fire.
A watched pot never boils.
Scratch an old woman's back and she will let you taste her pepper pot.
When visitors come a wi fireside, wi mek wi pot smell nice.
The pot reproaching the kettle.
No man can perfectly empty a pot with a ladle.
A little pot boils easily.
To find the dog in the pot.
To want the last from the pot.
Like pot, like cover.
A little pot is soon hot.
One penny in the pot makes more noise than when it is full.
The pot upbraids the kettle that it is black.
You may call me even a pot, just don't put me into the oven.
Call a pot, just don't put into the oven.
Abbot of Carcuela, you eat up the pot and ask for the pipkin.
The pot of water falls from your head when you have just reached the door of your homestead.
Wine from a pot is better than water from a well.
Flies can't fall in a tight-closed pot.
A pot trader whose fortunes are all invested in her clay pots isn't much of a merchant.
If you watch your pot, your food will not burn.
When you go to fetch water and do not return, they do not inquire about the pot.
A pan was mocking a pot because his mouth is big.
The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it.
The pot telling the kettle it black.
The cooking pot on the fire leaks, when pouring water it is broken.
Pot calling the kettle black.
You cannot get a quart into a pint pot.
He who asks for salt does so for his own cooking pot.
A brother is a cooking pot, and a neighbour is a cooking pot lid.
The little pot is soonest hot.
You cannot cook two meals in the same pot.
If you sit with us, you will get like us; if you sit beside a cooking pot, you will get black.
A barren woman is like a leaking pot.
A patient dually determined can fill a pot with water using a fingernail.
Society is like a pot it can't carry water when its broken.
It is a surprise that the cock should hold a grudge against the pot, instead of the knife that killed it.
The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it.
Even the best cooking pot will not produce food.
Never dump your old pot just because you have bought a new one.
It is difficult to throw a stone at a lizard which is clinging to a pot.
There's a pot gold at the end of the rainbow.
The busy man has few idle visitors: to the boiling pot the flies come not.
Nor pot to piss in.
A little pot is easily hot.
O! my brother Flip the pot on its mouth, the daughters turn into their mums.
The pot boils best on your own hearth.
The day is never so holy that the pot refuses to boil.
Every one rakes the fire under his own pot.
The pot calls the kettle black.
The earthen pan gains nothing by contact with the copper pot.
If you heat an empty pot it bursts.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
From a pound of talk, an ounce of understanding.
A penny-weight of love is worth a pound of law.
A pound of care will not pay an ounce of debt.
A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft.
A dram of discretion is worth a pound of wisdom.
Of words and feathers, it takes many to make a pound.
An ounce of discretion is better than a pound of knowledge.
Better an ounce of happiness than a pound of gold.
Better an ounce of luck than a pound of gold.
A pennyworth of mirth is worth a pound of sorrow.
An ounce of mother is worth a pound of priests.
An ounce of wit that's bought Is worth a pound that's taught.
An ounce of blood is worth more than a pound of friendship.
A pound of care will not pay a pound of debt.
An ounce of state to a pound of gold.
God take you, pound, drunk out and not yet spun.
The one who hasn't strength to pound yams pretends to drive away flies from the yams.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
An ounce of favor goes farther than a pound of justice.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom.
That which is stamped a penny will never be a pound.
An ounce of mother-wit is worth a pound of school-wit.
Penny wise, and pound foolish.
Of big words and feathers may go to the pound.
One pound of learning could require an army of common sense to apply it .
A penny at a pinch is worth a pound.
An ounce of fortune is worth a pound of forecast.
An ounce of mother-wit, is worth a pound of clergie.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
To pound water with a mortar is futile.
Penny wise, and pound foolish.
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.
An ounce of practice is worth a pound of precept.
An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom.
An ounce of favour goes further, or is worth more, than a pound of justice.
Pound the garlic, Pedro, whilst I grate the cheese.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
An ounce of do is worth a pound of tell how.
One pound of learning might have required many thousand persons of common sense to acquire it.
An ill win penny will cast down a pound.
An illness comes by the pound and goes away by the ounce.
An ounce of luck is better than a pound of misery.
Those who are in the following of the prince of everlastingness and God of life, sing with joy.
Breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dine like a pauper.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
Your son can be a prince, your daughter will be a mother.
The prince is never guilty in his father's court.
You have to kiss a lot of toads before you find a handsome prince.
The head of a monkey, the headdress of a prince.
To serve a prince is like sleeping with a tiger.
You have to kiss a lot of toads before you find a handsome prince.
A noble prince or king never has a coin to bless himself.
Who draws his sword against his prince must throw away his scabbard.
Whosoever draws his sword against the prince must throw the scabbard away.
A nobody to-day, a prince to-morrow.
I am a prince and you are a prince; who will lead the donkeys?.
A north wind has no corn, and a poor man no friend.
If a rich man dies, all the world is moved; if a poor man dies, nobody knows it.
A poor workman always blames his tools.
To be without a friend is to be poor indeed.
Like will to like, be they poor or rich.
The rich would have to eat money if the poor did not provide food.
Republicans will do anything for the poor except get off their backs.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
Being well dressed does not prevent one from being poor.
A poor man's sheep will never get fat.
The voice of a poor man does not carry very far.
Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor.
The poor eat meat when they bite their tongues.
If it were ever to rain soup, the poor would only have forks.
Never promise a poor person, and never owe a rich one.
The joy of a poor man does not last long.
When the poor man sets a trap only his dog gets caught.
When you are rich, you are hated; when you are poor, you are despised.
Mullah is sick when poor dies.
A poor person isn't he who has little, but he who needs a lot.
A penny in a poor man's pocket is better than two in rich man's pocket.
A poor man who takes a rich wife has a ruler, not a wife.
A poor man is hungry after eating.
No one is poor but he who thinks himself so.
If the farmer is poor then so is the whole country.
It is a poor parish where the priest has to ring his own bells.
Rather be a slave to a rich man than the spouse of a poor man.
There is a great uproar made about the debt of a poor man.
High birth is a poor dish on the table.
The poor fool is a man who falls on his back and breaks his nose.
A poor old horse will have a worn out tail.
He who gives alms to the poor faces heaven.
When two poor men help each other, God laughs.
If rich people could hire other people to die for them, the poor could make a wonderful living.
The rich devour the poor, and the devil devours the rich and so both are devoured.
He is as poor as job.
Do not run into debt with a rich man, or promise anything to a poor one.
Cleanliness is the luxury of the poor.
It's better to be poor, than to live alone.
It is a wretched thing to injure a poor man.
Bed is the poor man's opera.
He who mocks the poor shows contempt for their maker.
If a rich man steals it is a mistake; if a poor man makes a mistake he has stolen.
Three kinds of people die poor: those who divorce, those who incur debts, and those who move around too much.
The poor are excused from washing with soap.
The king lives way up where the stench of the poor cannot reach him.
A rich man who does not know himself is worth less than a poor man who does.
Fire is a good servant but a poor master.
A poor man does not pick up things if does they say he stole them.
When a poor man gets something he boasts of his new wealth.
A poor man has no contempt.
He is not poor that hath not feel content.
Rather ten thousand lanterns from a wealthy man than one lantern from a poor man.
Poor men sleep the best.
The poor sleep soundly.
The poor man and the rich man do not play together.
The poor ones give their alms in a humble way, the rich man throws them down with contempt.
The poor can only guess at what wealth is; the rich don't know what poverty means.
Poor iron won't make a sharp sword.
When you are rich, you are hated; when you are poor, you are despised.
People think that the poor are not as wise as the rich, for if a man be wise, why is he poor?
A poor man is always behind.
A forest is the poor man's overcoat.
The rich get richer, and the poor get babies.
A poor man's debt makes a great noise.
Alms never make poor.
A poor man's table is soon spread.
Discord between the powerful is a fortune for the poor.
A poor man would like to have some fun, but he cannot find the right place.
The poor man wants much, the miser everything.
Children are a poor man's wealth.
I have had is a poor man.
Avarice hoards itself poor; charity gives itself rich.
Charity gives itself rich; covetousness hoards itself poor.
All wooers are rich, and all captives poor.
Poor people's words go many to a sack-full.
It's a poor sheep that cannot carry its own wool.
On poor people's beards the young barber learns his trade.
It is a poor village that has neither smoke nor fire.
Many a defect is seen in the poor man.
A good retreat is better than a poor fight.
A little pleases a poor man.
A poor person is often worthy.
Death is the poor man's best physician.
Death is the poor man's doctor.
Poor is the church without music.
Two things that go for loss-turf on a mountain and the wisdom of a poor man.
Wisdom is what makes a poor man a king, a weak person powerful, a good generation of a bad one, a foolish man reasonable.
When the devil grows poor he becomes a tax collector.
A pretty basket does not prevent worries.
A pretty face and fine clothes do not make character.
She is like a road - pretty, but crooked.
Pretty wife, old wine -- many friends.
A pretty person looks pretty in every clothing.
The she-bear thinks her cubs pretty.
Butterflies come to pretty flowers.
Roosters' tail feathers: pretty but always behind.
There's only one pretty child in the world, and every mother has it.
There are many colourful flowers on the path of life, but the prettiest have the sharpest thorns.
Wherever there is a pretty spot, the devil plants a monastery or a lord.
A bandicoot is lovely to his parents; a mule is pretty to its mate.
Thank you, pretty pussy, was the death of my cat.
Long and lazy, little and loud; fat and fulsome, pretty and proud.
Pretty rose got macca jook.
Little things are pretty.
They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove they are right.
Love makes the owl seem prettier than a white falcon.
The man who has plenty of means of existence, conducts himself pretty much as he himself wishes.
There's only one pretty child in the world, and every mother has it.
Unless you're the lead sled dog, the view is pretty much the same.
The prettiest of shoes makes a sorry hat.
The fingers have got pretty close to the thumb.
Pretty children sing pretty songs.
There lies often falsehood beneath a pretty skin.
A lady has to be of the right cut and the right measure to make a pretty figure.
An old ape never made a pretty grimace.
There is no such thing as a pretty good omelet.
The crow is a pretty bird when the jackdaw is not present.
One who plants grapes by the road side, and one who marries a pretty woman, share the same problem.
Pretty girls, nice daughters, but from where do the mean women come?
Man who wants pretty nurse, must be patient.
The prettiest birds are in a cage.
Homely in the cradle, pretty at the table.
Here's to a long life and a merry one. A quick death and an easy one. A pretty girl and an honest one. A cold pint and another one!
There often lies falsehood beneath a pretty skin.
Little and pretty like the heaven's navel.
A day in prison is longer than a thousand years at large.
Though the cage be made of gold, it's still a prison.
A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison.
Who laughs at beggar's staff and roundhouse will be put to prison himself.
Earth is like a prison: we all go in through the same door, but we stay in different cells.
Steal goods and you'll go to prison, steal lands and you are a king.
It is better to sit with a wise man in prison than with a fool in paradise.
A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison.
Seek the brave in prison and the stupid among the clergy.
Shyness is the prison of the heart.
Never seemed prison fair, or mistress foul.
In the estimation of the nightingale, a cage of gold is a prison.
The guest is always the prisoner of the host.
A sick person is a prisoner.
A woman is a fortress, a man her prisoner.
Keep the tongue in your mouth a prisoner.
When an escaped prisoner looks for a guard, he always finds one.
So long as I can keep a secret it is my prisoner.
Keep your tongue a prisoner, and your body will gang free.
Everyone is a prisoner of her/his past.
For safety you are taken prisoner.
The trees with most leaves will not necessarily produce juicy fruit.
You cannot produce one human being without uniting two bodies.
People who do not mend things first will never produce something.
Drunkenness does not produce faults; it discovers them.
Clapping with the right hand only will not produce a noise.
Great abilities produce great vices as well as virtues.
Prickly pear trees dont produce peaches.
Our neighbour's crop is always more fruitful and his cattle produce more milk than our own.
An overcrowded chicken farm produce fewer eggs.
A gross belly does not produce a refined mind.
Fine words do not produce food.
Olives harvested with a heavy staff will produce poor tasting oil.
An onion will not produce a rose.
A scribe who does not know how to grasp the meaning -- from where will he produce a translation?
Small circumstances produce great events.
Mollah is a human, if an oak will produce an almond.
Flies will easily fly into the honey; their problem is how to get out.
The cheap thing isn't without problem, the expensive without help.
If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.
To a man who only has a hammer in his tool kit, every problem looks like a nail.
He who solves a problem with a problem will always have a problem in waiting.
When your only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.
Who goes to the fair without money, goes with one problem and returns with three.
No matter how stressed or angry we are, we have to solve a problem with rationale.
A dispute can only be resolved by discussing the problem openly and coolly.
In an instant illumination can be achieved, it is as easy as turning on a light, the problem is finding the switch in the dark.
Deep down all men are alike -- and that is the problem.
Solve one problem, and you keep a hundred others away.
No problem is settled until it is settled right.
The problem with the palace attendant isn't how to steal the king's drums but where to play them from.
Every bad person deserves a bad problem.
A problem is solved when it gets tougher.
One who plants grapes by the road side, and one who marries a pretty woman, share the same problem.
Meaning: Opportunities should not be taken for granted. A problem ignored is a problem doubled.
The dead know the price of wood.
A woman's clothes are the price her husband pays for peace.
One kindness is the price of another.
Ask no favors and people everywhere are affable; if you don't drink, it doesn't matter what price wine is.
Every man has his price.
He knows the price of everything and the value of nothing.
Cheat me in the price and not in the goods.
Deceive me about the price but not about the goods.
Every time history repeats itself the price goes up.
As you pay the price with the fertilizer, the hoe and pruning determines the harvest of the olives.
Scarcity sets the price.
If you want to sell at a high price you'll earn little.
The price of a laugh is too high, if it is raised at the expense of another.
For whoever wants the blue sky, the price is high.
Every man has a price.
The flimsier the product, the higher the price.
IF you are buying a cow, make sure that the price of the tail is included.
Love can neither be bought or sold, its only price is love.
No price is too low for a bear or too high for a bull.
If you don't want to be cheated, ask the price at three shops.
Gold has its price; learning is beyond price.
Anyone who has sold an old lady, knows the price of an old man.
Cheat me in the price, but not in the goods.
One kindness is the price of another.
Peace must be bought even at a high price.
He is never likely to have a good thing cheap that is afraid to ask a price.
He who would have good cabbage, must pay its price.
Love cannot be bought or sold its only price is love.
Love is the true price at which love is bought.
Auld springs gie me price.
Long standing, and little offering, makes a poor price.
Always ask a higher price, because you can always lower it.
Honey is one thing, the price is another.
Cheat me in the price and not in the goods.
Cheat me with the price, but not with the goods I buy.
I would not purchase it at the price of a rotten nut.
All those men have their price. (Robert Walpole)
I know my price. (William Shakespeare)
Everything you buy at the price.
If the price is the same, choose the people usually the good instead of the bad, unless it's a product of spirit.
If the stone is not milky, its owner will generally not obtain the best price from it.
The government will fall that raises the price of beer.
Virtue is a jewel of great price.
A high price moderates desire.
There is no time like the present.
The worst ache is the present ache.
He who gives a monkey as a present doesn't keep hold of its tail.
Women do not drink liquor, but it disappears when they are present.
Affairs sleep soundly when fortune is present.
A person worries about the past, distresses about the present, and fears the future.
When the angels present themselves, the devils abscond.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
When others have received, you may still receive, because God is always present.
When your friend gives your wife an expensive present, it's time to get suspicious.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at the present.
Women are supernumerary when present, and missed when absent.
A gift with a kind countenance is a double present.
Who takes a lion at a distance fears a mole present.
When a bald man dies the mourners give him curly hair as a present.
He who praises the past blames the present.
He that fears you present will hate you absent.
He who is present at a wrongdoing and does not lift a hand to prevent it is guilty.
Men see only the present; heaven sees the future.
A spiritual leader is able to see the past, present and the future.
Don't mortgage the future for the present.
He who has no future loses his grip on the present.
Sorrow remembered sweetens present joy.
He who killeth the lion when absent feareth a mouse when present.
No time like the present.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present; a kiss to greet the future.
Who will in time present pleasure refrain, shall in time to come the more pleasure obtain.
The cow has a bad delivery though her owner is present.
The cow is given a present when her calf is carried away.
Though my present be small, my love goes with it.
Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse.
Never advise anyone to go to war or to get married. Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present. He that has no children brings them up well.
Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse.
We judge of the present from the past.
The crow is a pretty bird when the jackdaw is not present.
God will be present, whether asked or not.
Ever receive a present with approbation.
Present afflictions may tend to our future good.
Enjoy the present day, trusting little to what tomorrow may bring.
There is no time like the present. (18th century) (Citatboken)
"Botofe bo le iwa.” : Rubber is death (present day Congo proverb)
A bald-headed man will not grow hair by getting excited.
Youths look at the future, the elderly at the past, our ancestors live in the present.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present.
It is well to remember that there are five reasons for drinking the arrival of a friend, one's present or future thirst, the excellence of the wine, or any other reason.
No time to waste like the present.
Не that fears you present will hate you absent.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present.
Danger should be feared when distant, and braved when present.
The olden age was never the present age.
Where people are promising much to you, bring a small bag.
To threaten the brave with death is like promising water to a duck.
Promising is one thing, performing another.
Talking is easier than doing, and promising than performing.
Between promising and performing a man may marry his daughter.
Three things make a man rich: Earning and not spending, promising and not doing, buying and not selling.
Promising and performing are two things.
Promising is one thing, performing another.
Between promising and giving a man should marry his daughter.
Where people are promising much to you, bring a small bag.
Between promising and performing a man may marry his daughter.
Cut your losses and let your profits run.
A man profits more by the sight of an idiot than by the orations of the learned.
Moderate profits fill the purse.
A fool may meet with good fortune, but the wise only profits by it.
Ask not what your profits can do for you, but what you can do for your profits.
Those who take the profits should also bear the expense.
Small profits are sweet.
Small profits are often, are better than large profits and seldom.
Small profits are good if they come often.
Large desire is endless poverty.
Pride that dined with vanity supped with poverty.
Poverty is slavery.
Poverty is an older daughter of laziness.
Work is the medicine for poverty.
Blacksmiths and woodworkers will never suffer from poverty.
Poverty is not a crime, but it's better not to show it.
Bashfulness is an enemy to poverty.
Comfort is not known if poverty does not come before it.
Poverty makes thieves, like love makes poets.
The worst kind of poverty is to have many debts.
True poverty does not come from God.
There are no better masters than poverty and wants.
Poverty won't allow him to lift up his head; dignity won't allow him to bow it down.
Where there is abundance, there is poverty.
Poverty is no sin, but terribly inconvenient.
The poor can only guess at what wealth is; the rich don't know what poverty means.
Poverty is an enemy to good manners.
Poverty is cunning; it catches even a fox.
Idleness has poverty for wages.
Poverty parts good company.
Poverty is no shame.
Painless poverty is better than embittered wealth.
Old age and poverty are wounds that can't be healed.
Poverty parteth friends.
Poverty never sped well in love.
It befits the king to be liberal, for he is sure of never falling into poverty.
Poverty has no kin.
A fat kitchen is next door to poverty.
There is no coat big enough to hide both poverty and drunkenness.
Lending is the firstborn of poverty.
Youth spent freely, old age spent in poverty.
Poverty is no joy, although it sometimes makes you laugh.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
No better masters than poverty and want.
Shame lasts longer than poverty.
Bear wealth, poverty will bear itself.
Poverty is crafty.
Poverty is a sin that the rich never forgive.
His wit got wings and would have flown, But poverty still kept him down.
Poverty does not destroy virtue nor wealth bestow it.
Prosperity teaches one, and poverty puts one to shame.
There is no honor in poverty.
When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
Poverty has no greater foe than bashfulness.
If there had been no poverty in europe, then the white man would not have come and spread his clothes in africa.
Life has always been a mixture of joy and pain, wealth and poverty.
The monkey says there is nothing better than poverty to unlearn man of his conceit.
A dog won't forsake his master because of poverty; a son never deserts his mother because of her homely appearance.
Where there is no wealth there is no poverty.
Poverty without debt is real wealth.
Debt is the worst kind of poverty.
Handsome poverty is no disgrace.
Poverty is no vice, but an inconvenience.
Poverty is not a shame, but the being ashamed of it is.
The endless saver always lives in poverty.
He who sows money, will reap poverty.
Poverty craves many things, but avarice more.
Poverty and hunger have many learned disciples.
He who travels with hope, has poverty for his coachman.
Poverty is the sixth sense.
Riches cause arrogance; poverty, meekness.
Sloth is the key to poverty.
Sloth is the mother of poverty.
Poverty is not vile.
Poverty wants many things, and avarice all.
A woman prefers poverty with love to wealth without love.
Poverty is a wonderful thing. It sticks to a man after all his friends have forsaken him.
An advantage of poverty, your relatives gain nothing by your death.
Poverty runs after the poor, wealth after the rich.
When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
Idleness is the key of poverty.
Where poverty comes in, love goes out.
Poverty and love are difficult to hide.
It's sin and not poverty that makes men miserable.
Misery and poverty are two sisters; discord is their first cousin.
Foolish spending is a father of poverty.
Oh, oh, oh! three times I say it, who falls into poverty loses his friends.
When there is poverty, loyalty is suspect.
A long lawsuit breeds poverty.
Riches and poverty do not leave each other.
Nobody cares about other people's poverty.
You can disguise wealth but you can't hide poverty.
The doctor has a remedy for everything but poverty.
When industry goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window.
When hard work goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window.
Where poverty comes in at the door, loves flies out at the window.
Riches run after the rich, and poverty runs after the poor.
First prove your brotherhood, then claim inheritance.
They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove they are right.
This grief will prove a blessing.
Unwanted meddling in affairs could prove harmful.
Great chiefs prove their worthiness.
We've arrived, and to prove it we're here.
Be civil to every man; you know not who may prove to be your friend.
Attitudes don't prove anyhing.
Never try to prove what nobody doubts.
In adversity is when friendship is proven.
The good sailor is proven in a storm.
A man at sixteen will prove a child at sixty.
Sugared words generally prove bitter.
Singing "Alelulia"everywwhere does not prove piety.
A man should live to prove himself worth of his own flesh and blood.
Never try to prove what nobody doubts.
Sometimes silence is the proper answer.
Joking must have its proper limit.
A man can't get rich if he takes proper care of his family.
Teach your descendants the two proper roads - literature and farming.
If i am virtuous and worthy, for whom should i not maintain a proper concern?
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
God sends clothes to those with no proper figure, and bread to those with no teeth.
Give a servant a proper meal and the cow will give more milk and the cat will drink less.
Every cat has a proper tail. Over there is a cat with no tail.
To remove something from its proper place is an abomination to Ninurta.
Praise the day at sunset.
The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree to the ground said he would praise himself if no one else did.
You praise yourself so much you're never finished.
Praise youth and it will prosper.
Don't praise my good fortune before i'm dead and buried.
Pay the doctor, praise the lord.
Even too much praise is a burden.
Don't praise your wife before a year.
Even as a solid rock is unshaken by the wind, so are the wise unshaken by praise or blame.
Those who know how to praise also know how to lie.
Praise makes a bad man worse.
Envy is a kind of praise.
Envy is left-handed praise.
Beware the man who lavishes too much praise on you, he will later run you down.
Praise borrowed from ancestors is but very sorry praise.
Hares are caught with hounds, fools with praise, and women with gold.
Praise the ford when you have crossed it.
Never praise your son-in-law until the year is out.
Praise undeserved is satire in disguise.
Many men know how to flatter, few men know how to praise.
Praise in own mouth is insult.
Do not reprimand the alien, do not praise your own.
To censure princes is perilous, and to praise them is lying.
The best way to get praise is to die.
Trust not the praise of a friend nor the contempt of an enemy.
Wait for a month before you praise a horse, and for a year before you praise a woman.
A puff of wind and popular praise weigh alike.
The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree said he would praise himself if no one else did.
A cat lives on praise, a dog by pats on the head.
Praise your horse tomorrow, your son when he has a beard, your daughter when she is married and yourself never.
Let someone else sing your praise.
Don't praise tomorrow because tomorrow praises itself.
He who does not praise a thing is he who buys it.
The envious never give praise, they only take it in.
Condemn a man within earshot; praise him at a distance.
Chickens don't praise their own soup.
A righteous man by praise will render thee firm in favor and love.
Happy is he who hath in himself praise and wisdom in life.
Neither blame or praise yourself.
The way of this world is to praise dead saints and persecute living ones.
Women never praise without gossiping.
Praise of the moon the god.
Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition.
Self-praise is nno praise at all.
A puff of wind and popular praise weigh the same.
The owl does not praise the light, nor the wolf the dog.
Every man likes his own praise best.
Faint praise is akin to abuse.
Praise paves the way to friendship.
Many love to praise right and do wrong.
From praise, as from a shadow, a man is neither bigger nor smaller.
A fair face will get its praise, though the owner keep silent.
Praise the child, and you make love to the mother.
Undeserved praise is mockery disguised.
The praise of a thousand jesters counts for nothing against the reprimand of one wise man.
Self-praise stinks, friends praise hinks, the stranger's is sincere, and may last for a year.
Praise a fair day at night.
In the evening one may praise the day.
Praise without profit puts little in the pocket.
Praise the sea but keep near land.
Praise the ripe field, not the green corn.
Praise the young and they will blossom.
He that refuseth praise the first time does it because he would have it the second.
Praise the sea, and keep on land.
Praise a fair day at night.
A man's praise in his own mouth stinks.
Praise to the face is open disgrace.
We praise in order to be praised in return.
Praise gets closer than blame.
Praise is easier got than kept.
One talks against praise in order to hear it once again.
Praise makes the good man better, blame makes the bad one worse.
It's stinking praise comes oot o' ane's own mouth.
Praise the fine day in the evening.
When something happens, praise it.
To keep one's tongue is worthy of praise.
Praise the young and they will blossom.
Women will believe any lie that is wrapped in praise.
Women believe the strangest of lies as long as they are wrapped up in praise.
Don't praise your furnace when the house is cold.
Praise a fair day at night.
In the presence of your neighbor don't praise your wife or his.
Never praise life in front of death, nor the beautiful day in front of night.
Praise yourself, basket, for I want to sell you.
It is a disgrace to be praised by those who deserve no praise.
Self praise is odious.
Praise a fair day at night.
One shouldn't praise the day before the evening.
When a dead tree falls, the woodpeckers profit from his death.
There are only two things from which to choose: profit or loss.
If there is any profit in partnership, two will share a woman.
Whenever there is profit to be made then think of honesty.
Better make profit out of manure than losses with musk.
All receive advice. Only the wise profit from it.
Honor and profit will not keep in one sack.
The fish sees the bait not the hook; a man sees not the danger - only the profit.
Profit is profit even in Mecca.
A wise man can hear profit in the wind.
Even in the worst of times someone turns a profit.
The justification for profit is profit.
The riskier the road, the greater the profit.
Opportunity plus instinct equals profit.
Never place friendship above profit.
Not even dishonesty can tarnish the shine of profit.
Profit is it's own reward.
A ferengi without profit is no ferengi at all.
When there are two in a lawsuit only a third will profit from it.
Profit by the folly of others.
Who busies himself where no profit is found remains a fool the whole year round.
Your thrift's as gude as the profit o' a yeld hen.
Profit is better than fame.
It is difficult to scare people who think they will profit from dying.
Praise without profit puts little in the pocket.
A seat in the council is honour without profit.
Every one is wise for his own profit.
Accomplishment of purpose is better than making a profit.
Kindred without friends, friends without power, power without will, will without effect, effect without profit, profit without virtue, is not worth a rush.
He who takes the profit ought also to take the labour.
We never profit by the gifts of the wicked.
A fool may be known by six things anger, without cause speech, without profit change, without progress inquiry, without object putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Accomplishment of purpose is better than making a profit.
Honour and profit lie not in one sack.
Little profit comes from constant drunkenness.
The hidden things of wisdom and a treasure that is not seen, what profit is in them both?
Look after your property, and you won't accuse your neighbour of being a thief.
A spender gets the property of the hoarder.
A good neighbor increases the value of your property.
Covet not the property of others.
Return property to its owner, and your sleep will be peaceful.
Used recklessly then s/he must have inherited the misused property.
Many an Irish property was increased by the lace of a daughter's petticoat.
No sooner have you spoken than what you have said becomes the property of another.
The lives of doctors, the souls of priests, and the property of lawyers, are in great danger.
A person who picks something and decides to make it his own, ought to think how he would feel if he was the person who lost the property he picked.
Your soul to God, your body to dust, your property to your relatives, because thus it has been found written.
The property of a helpless man must nit be divided before his death.
The ass that is common property is always the worst saddled.
Property will not earn life, but life will earn property.
Many an Irish property was increased by the lace of a daughter's petticoat.
Do not let your eye go beyond what is your own property; do not covet what is not yours..
Property is robbery.
Pride that dined with vanity supped with poverty.
Pride goes only as far as one can spit.
To have two eyes is cause for pride; but to have one eye is better than to have none.
There are some who despise pride with a greater pride.
By pride one causes virtue to decline.
Pride is the mask of one's own faults.
Comfort is better than pride.
Pride comes before a fall.
Hunger brings people down, but pride can help them get up.
Pride and dignity would belong to women if only men would leave them alone.
Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
Pride goes before a fall.
Pride feels no pain.
Pride is the mask of our sins.
It is a beggar's pride that he is not a thief.
If youthful pride were wealth, then every man would have had it in his lifetime.
A proud heart can survive a general failure because such a failure does not prick its pride.
Heresy is the school of pride.
Too much humility is pride.
A swan would die with pride only for its black feet.
Eat fire and your mouth burn; live on credit and your pride will burn.
If pride were an art, how many doctors we should have.
Pride joined with many virtues chokes them all.
Pride is no substitute for a dinner.
Pride only goes the length one can spit.
A man should not, out of pride and etiquette, swallow his phlegm.
If you fill your head with pride you will lack space for wisdom.
If you're filled with pride then you will not have room for wisdom.
Pride is said to be the last vice the good man gets clear of.
Pride is the last vice a good man gets clear of.
Pride often apes humility.
Pride in prosperity turns to misery in adversity.
It is pride, not nature, that craves much.
Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold.
Don't pride over your wealth or beauty, one will be gone in a night and the other with a fever.
It is better to cut off the head that has no pride.
The nobler the blood, the less the pride.
Pride will have a fall.
The pride of the poor does not endure.
No pride like that of an enriched beggar.
Pride feels no pain.
The pride of women and the pride of priests.
Pride comes before fall.
Pride breakfasted with plenty, dined with poverty, and supped with infamy.
Pride goes before, and shame follows.
Plenty brings pride.
Pride and sweirnesse would have meikle upholding.
Honesty is na pride.
If a man is not clean and smooth, there is nothing he can really do about pride.
The chest contains a beehive full of pride.
Pride goes before the fall.
Charity and pride have different aims, yet both feed the poor.
Pride can live in the dungheap.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.
Ingratitude is the daughter of pride.
Providence crushes pride.
In measly pride, devil finds satisfaction.
Pride is the mask we make of our faults.
To have two eyes is cause for pride.
Eat fire and your mouth will burn live on credit and your pride will burn.
Pride will have a fall.
Pride is the last vice a good man gets clear of.
Pride comes before a fall.
Pride and grace dwell never in ae place.
Pride comes before fall.
Bold resolution is the favourite of providence.
When fools make mistakes, they lay the blame on providence.
We need not friends if Providence smiles on us.
Providence has not entirely deserted us.
Providence is always on the side of the big battalions.
Providence is better than a rent.
All is in vain unless Providence is with us.
Providence crushes pride.
Providence tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
Providence our herald, no barrier can oppose us.
Providence may delay, but punishment will come at length.
When fools make mistakes, they lay the blame on providence.
If you leap into a well, providence is not bound to fetch you out.
To promise much means giving little.
To promise and give nothing is comfort for a fool.
He lives in the land of promise.
A small gift is better than a great promise.
Do not run into debt with a rich man, or promise anything to a poor one.
I will charge thee nothing but the promise that thee will help the next man thee finds in trouble.
Fidelity in a king, promise in men.
The day cuts off the promise of the night.
Men apt to promise are apt to forget.
To promise is easy, to keep is troublesome.
From the promise to the deed is a day's journey.
Neither promise wax to the saint, nor cakes to the child.
A promise is a nice word, if kept then it is all right.
In the land of promise a man may die of hunger.
No pillows so soft as God's Promise.
In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter.
Don't promise something when you are full of joy; don't answer letters when you are full of anger.
The world has not made a promise to anybody.
Promise little but with respect.
A gift is better than a promise.
Promise little but do much.
When a man repeats a promise again and again, he means to fail you.
Better to deny at once, than to promise long.
There is no virtue in a promise unless it be kept.
Nothing weighs lighter than a promise.
A promise is a debt.
Every promise is a debt.
Promise little and do much.
To promise and give nothing is comfort to a fool.
Promise freely, fullfill sparingly.
An unkept promise leads to a bad life.
Having given your word, be strong; not having done it, try not to promise.
There is no greater fraud than a promise not kept.
Don't expect from others what you can't promise them yourself.
An acre of performance is worth the whole world of promise.
Promise is debt.
Yesterday's promise, like tomorrows never comes.
There is no greater fraud than a promise not kept.
If you promise something it is a debt that you have to repay.
Don't promise what you cannot perform.
A priest blesses his own bread first.
It is a poor parish where the priest has to ring his own bells.
A long beard and a rosary will not make you a priest.
A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are.
Never eat at the table of a Priest.
One cannot become a priest just by having a rosary.
How good at combing is the bald priest.
It is good to be priest at Easter, child in Lent, peasant at Christmas, and foal in harvest-time.
Wherever there is mischief, there is sure to be a priest and a woman in it.
Put the priest in the middle of the parish.
If The Priest is used to get drunk, the people do not sober at all.
A whistling priest has a demon in his belly.
A mad parish, a mad priest.
That priest is a fool who decries his relics.
A priest is a man who is called Father by everyone except his own children who are obliged to call him Uncle.
The priest errs at the altar.
Talk to a priest and die a thousand deaths.
Capacious as the sleeve of a monk and patient as the priest with his arms across his chest.
Like priest, like church.
For our sins God has created three enemies for us: mice in the house, the fox in the mountains, and a priest in our village.
The priest to his book, the peasant to his plough.
The priest loves his flock, but the lambs more than the wethers.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter a pig and you will be happy for a month; become a priest and you will be happy for the rest of your life.
Give the priest drink, for the clerk is thirsty.
The congregation is poor, the priest rings the bell himself.
One likes the priest, someone else his wife, I prefer his daughter.
A good priest learns until his death.
Not even the priest will speak, preach twice.
Sike Priest, sike Offering.
In a large church no priest dies.
Who has a priest at home, has plenty of food.
The gluttony of the monk and the appetite of the priest.
Latin hides the stupidity of the priest.
Having a priest in the house is paradise on earth.
He that wants to keep his house clean must not let priest or pigeon into it.
The priest does not eat pilav every day.
Trust not your gossip to a priest who has been a friar.
Like priest, like people.
Once a priest, always a priest.
Once a priest, always a priest.
A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are.
Whatever befalls the priest let it befall the priest's wife.
No mischief but a woman or a priest is at the bottom of it.
A priest that's made a pet of and a pig that's made a pet of are the two worst pets of all. However, all priests are different. And in our times some pigs are kept as pets.
Priest is like a signpost, shows where to go, but stays there himself.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Assertion is no proof.
No armor is proof against the gallows.
Prepare your proof before you argue.
Comparison is not necessarily proof.
Comparison is not proof.
A thread-bare coat is armour proof against highwaymen.
For those who believe, no proof is necessary. For those who don't believe, no proof is possible.
Speaking french is no proof of intelligence.
A flow of words is no proof of being easy enough.
A proof of faith is obedience.
The proof of the pudding is eating it.
When it's seen, there's no need for proof.
Laughing is not always the proof of a mind at ease.
When there is trust, no proof is necessary.
The proof of the pudding lies in the eating of it.
No man's a prophet in his own land.
A prophet is not without honor save in his own country.
Make me a prophet and I will make you rich.
If you are astonished at Moses' deeds, you will be more astonished at Pharaoh's. Not-Moses declared himself to he a prophet, but Pharaoh declared himself to be God.
A prophet is not recognized in his own land.
The good speech of an ass is better than the bad word of a prophet.
If I were a prophet, I wouldn't be wretched.
Prophet copies a prophet.
The complete fool is half prophet.
No man is a prophet in his own country.
The heart is half a prophet.
Nobody is a prophet in his own country.
A prophet has no honour in his own country.
No one is a prophet in one's own homeland/home city.
The barking dog gives you no power -- it gives you fear.
Anger without power is folly.
Keep learning because knowledge is the key to power.
When a king is about to lose his power his orders burn more intensely than fire.
Power lasts ten years; influence not more than a hundred.
Only when a new government comes to power do you learn to appreciate the values of the old one.
Power corrupts.
He who fears something gives it power over him.
If you are afraid of something, you give it power over you.
The power of the crocodile is in the water.
If power can be bought then sell your mother to get it.
If you don't recognize God, at least know him by his power.
Unity is power.
Beauty is power.
Give up the smallest part of a secret, and the rest is no longer in your power.
The Power fellow will have another day.
Don't demand your rights until you have the power.
Never give a sword to a fool or power to an unjust man.
The woman who gives is seldom good; the woman who accepts is in the power of the giver.
Money is an epitome of human power.
Where right has no power - there power likes to be.
Money is power.
Avoid strife with those in power.
Everything the power does, it does in a circle.
The power of the world always works in circles.
Man has responsibility, not power.
Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large numbers.
Fear is power.
Great men do not seek power; it thrust upon them.
Real power is in the heart.
Mercy or power.
One who is free to sin, sins less; the very power weakens the seeds of sin.
Unless a serpent devour a serpent it will not become a dragon. Unless one power absorb another, it will not become great.
Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do so.
There is no flower that remains red for ten days, and no power that lasts for ten years.
The responsibility of power is like holding an egg. Grasp it too tightly and it will drip through your fingers; hold it too loosely and it will drop and break.
Use power to curb power.
The less power a man has, the more he likes to use it.
Patience is power; with time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Over a distance of a thousand miles only humanity works, not power.
The forest not only hides man's enemies but its full of man's medicine, healing power and food.
The power of a leopard resides in its claws.
Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely.
No one so hard upon the poor as the pauper who has got into power.
Knowledge is power.
Knowledge is power.
The lion's power lies in our fear of him.
Virtue is power.
Will is power.
Who wives for a dower, resigns his own power.
Where power reigns there is no room for reason.
Kindred without friends, friends without power, power without will, will without effect, effect without profit, profit without virtue, is not worth a rush.
Who has power in his hands has no need to lie; he uses violence.
He who strives to do, does more than he who has the power.
He who is afraid of a thing gives it power over him.
There grows not the herb, which can protect against the power of death.
The diseases of the mind are either caused or cured by the power of music.
All power is impatient of a partner.
Lust of power is the strongest of all passions.
Yield to divine power.
Power is strengthened by union.
It is a strange desire to seek power and to lose liberty. (Francis Bacon)
Knowledge is power.
Who has beard has the power.
Virtue is power.
Wish is power.
He who destined for power does not have to fight for it.
Rules are stronger than an individual's power.
You have little power over what's not yours.
Knowledge is power.
If power is for sale, sell your mother to buy it. You can always buy her back again.
The worst kind of person is one whose power of speech is greater than his power of thought.
No lock will hold against the power of gold.
None are more haughty than a common place person raised to power.
Do not leave undone what is in your power to do.
Wisdom is power.
Sincerity gives wings to power.
He who marries prudence is the brother-in-law of peace.
Love and prudence are absolutely incompatible.
Though you possess prudence, old man, do not despise advice.
A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft.
Piety, prudence, wit, and civility, are the elements of true nobility.
A man without prudence is a ship without an anchor.
Luck taps at the door and inquires whether prudence is within.
Good nature without prudence is foolishness.
To change one's mind is rather a sign of prudence than ignorance.
Prudence availeth more than strength.
Prudence does no harm.
A country can be judged by the quality of its proverbs.
Proverbs in conversation are torches in darkness.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
Proverbs can be applied to get what you want.
If two proverbs are not similar, one is not used to explain the other.
The wise create proverbs for fools to learn not to repeat.
Proverbs are like butterflies; some are caught and some fly away.
Proverbs cannot be contradicted.
Old proverbs are the children of truth.
Proverbs are the daughters of daily experience.
A prudent man who knows proverbs, resolved problems.
Proverbs are the daughters of experience.
A wise man who knows proverbs, reconciles difficulties.
Wise men make proverbs but fools repeat them.
Not a few proverbs are dear children of experience.
Proverbs bear age, and he who would do well may view himself in them as in a looking glass.
A person can understand things deeply through proverbs.
A wise man who knows proverbs can reconcile difficulties.
Proverbs are the people's wisdom.
Paczolay, Gyula (1997). "1". European proverbs: in 55 languages, with equivalents in Arabic, Persian, Sanskrit, Chinese and Japanese. Veszprémi Nyomda. p. 33. ISBN 1-875943-44-7.
Armenian Proverbs and Sayings, Translated into English by R. Gevorg Bayyan, Academy of St. Lazarus, Venice, 1889.
Armenian Proverbs and the Biblical Scripture, Gayané V. Hagopian, California State University, Northridge.
Strauss, Emanuel (1994). Dictionary of European proverbs (Volume 2 ed.). Routledge. p. 600. ISBN 0415096243.
Source: S. W. Fallon; Sir Richard Carnac Temple; Faqir Chand (Lala.) (1998). A dictionary of Hindustani proverbs. Asian Educational Services. p. 119. ISBN 978-81-206-0663-0.
Proverbs are the golden words.
Margulis, Kholodnaya (2000). Russian-English dictionary of proverbs and sayings. McFarland. p. 22. ISBN 0786407034.
Proverbs are the library of history.
Quebecois Proverbs.
Proverbs are the people's wisdom.
Paczolay, Gyula (1997). European Proverbs in 55 languages. DeProverbio.com. p. 272. ISBN 1-875943-44-7.
James Kelly (1818). A Complete Collection of Scottish Proverbs Explained and Made Intelligible to the English Reader. Rodwell and Martin. p. 43.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
Strauss, Emanuel (1994). Dictionary of European proverbs (Volume 2 ed.). Routledge. p. 600. ISBN 0415096243.
A prudent man who knows proverbs, resolved problems.
Martin H. Manser (2007). The Facts on File Dictionary of Proverbs. Infobase Publishing. p. 80. ISBN 978-0-8160-6673-5. Retrieved on 22 September 2013.
u people i can not find mush proverbs about hands why if u have added i pls send a mail.
Jones, Tegwyn (1996). A Little Book of Welsh Proverbs. p.60.
Cold strengthens you more than hunger.Yiddish Proverbs
Come for your inheritance and you may have to pay for the funeral.
When brains are needed, brawn won't help.Yiddish Proverbs
When brains are needed, brawn won't help.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
A proverb can't be judged.
A proverb is to speech what salt is to food.
A proverb is the horse that can carry one swiftly to the discovery of ideas.
An old woman is always uneasy when dry bones are mentioned in a proverb.
A proverb is the child of experience.
A proverb never lies; it is only its meaning which deceives.
Though the proverb is abandoned, it is not falsified.
The poor man's proverb is never quoted.
A proverb is a short sentence based on long experience.
A wide garment does not tear, a proverb does not spoil.
When a fool is told a proverb, it has to be explained to him.
He who asks for the meaning of a proverb has called her/his mother's dowry a waste.
The proverb cannot be bettered.
A proverb is the horse of conversation: when the conversation lags, a proverb revives it.
Don't quote your proverb 'til you bring your ship to port.
We speak byh proverb: he who is intelligent will understand.
This proverb is often used to illustrate a person who does not have enough resources to accomplish his goal.
It has become a proverb.
* Tallement des Réaux, Historiettes, Volume I, Chapter I (c. 1657–1659); reported as a proverb in Hoyt's New Cyclopedia Of Practical Quotations (1922), p. 639.
"Botofe bo le iwa.” : Rubber is death (present day Congo proverb)
A bald-headed man will not grow hair by getting excited.
When the fool is told a proverb, its meaning has to be explained to him.
A proverb is a short, pithy saying that expresses a traditionally held truth or piece of advice, based on common sense or experience.
No proverb is untrue.
A proverb is the wisdom of age and antiquity.
A drop hollows out the stone not by force, but falling many times. (original latin proverb).
If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain. If you want 10 years of prosperity, grow trees. If you want 100 years of prosperity, grow people.
Worldly prosperity is like writing on water.
The person who gets stuck on trivial prosperity will not attain great prosperity.
Haste does not result in prosperity.
He appreciates prosperity who is caught in calamity.
Almsgiving never impoverished, stealing never enriched, and prosperity never made wise.
In prosperity no altars smoke.
Too much prosperity makes most men fools.
A man can not sit down alone to plan for prosperity.
In prosperity think of adversity.
He that considers in prosperity; will be less afflicted in adversity.
The prosperity of a country is in accordance with its treatment of the aged.
Prosperity improves one's personality, adversity cripples it.
Prosperity teaches one, and poverty puts one to shame.
It is prosperity that gives us friends, adversity that proves them.
The prosperity of fools shall destroy them.
Be frugal in prosperity, fear not in adversity.
Too much prosperity makes most men fools.
Pride in prosperity turns to misery in adversity.
Prosperity gets followers, but adversity distinguishes them.
In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty.
Adversity is easier borne than prosperity forgot.
Prosperity makes freinds, adversity tries them.
He who swells in prosperity will shrink in adversity.
Activity breeds prosperity.
When you're enjoying prosperity, be wary of adversity.
When prosperity smiles, beware of its guiles.
In prosperity caution, in adversity patience.
Prosperity forgets father and mother.
In prosperity look out for squalls.
In prosperity you may count on many friends; if the sky becomes overcast you will be alone.
It is not easy to bear prosperity unruffled.
In time of prosperity consider how you will bear adversity.
The north wind is a satisfying wind; the south wind is harmful to man. The east wind is a rain-bearing wind; the west wind is greater than those who live there. The east wind is a wind of prosperity, the friend of Naram-Suen.
Activity breeds prosperity.
If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain. If you want 10 years of prosperity, grow trees. If you want 100 years of prosperity, grow people.
The sun is red at dawn and red at sunset. Great men are unchanged in prosperity and in distress.
If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain.
Prosperity makes friends, and adversity tries them. Успех находит друзей, а горе испытывает их.
The lucky man waits for prosperity.
He who is his own teacher has a fool for his pupil.
Many a pupil has gained more wealth than his master.
When the pupil is ready to learn, a teacher will appear.
You will never learn enough looking for only the good things in life; you will always be a pupil.
The real scholar is not afraid to ask questions of his pupil.
He who undertakes to be his own teacher has a fool for a pupil.
If the pupil is smart, the teacher gets the credit.
Today is yesterday's pupil.
To-morrow is the pupil of to-day.
The heart of an evil person is never pure.
Laws are useless when men are pure, unenforceable when men are corrupt.
The pure, upon seeing it pure, call it pure.
Generosity is white and pure like milk.
More pure than a tear.
He must be pure who would blame another.
Clean bodies, pure morals.
It's difficult to draw pure water from a dirty well.
You do not fatten pigs with pure water.
As pure as snow.
Pure gold does not fear the smelter.
A pure heart has few desires.
A set of white teeth does not indicate a pure heart.
One can't enter heaven by worshiping, one needs to have a pure heart.
The thousand brilliant accomplishments of the past cannot serve today's purpose.
The secret of success is constancy of purpose.
Better to say nothing, than to say something not to the purpose.
When silent men speak they speak to the purpose.
Confession without contrition serves no purpose.
The purpose sanctifies the means.
Speak little and to the purpose.
We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through. Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love... and then we return home.
A good purpose is like a doctor and evil purpose corrupts.
The purpose consecrates the means.
Accomplishment of purpose is better than making a profit.
A man know's no more to any purpose than he practises.
Right or wrong, God aid our purpose.
He is wise to no purpose, who is not wise for himself.
Overdoing is doing nothing to the purpose.
Accomplishment of purpose is better than making a profit.
Fools may sometimes speak to the purpose.
A fool may sometimes speak to the purpose.
Do not treat your loved one like a swinging door: you are fond of it but you push it back and forth.
‘almost' does not push a man off his horse.
Do not push the river, it will flow by itself.
"Give me a push from my back" does not mean give me a hunchback.
Push the stone to the top of the mountain.
Fate leads those who are willing but must push those who are not.
Man cannot stir one inch without the push of heaven's finger.
When in motion, to push on is easy.
It is easy to push a cart drawn by twelve oxen.
If you play push with the porcupine, expect to get sore hands.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Handle the pudding while it's hot.
The friar preached against stealing when he had a pudding in his sleeve.
Even over cold pudding, the coward says: "it will burn my mouth.”.
Cold pudding settles love.
The proof of the pudding is eating it.
All things hes an end, a Pudding hes twa.
If ever ye make a lucky pudding, I shall eat the prick.
The proof of the pudding lies in the eating of it.
The enemy's own punishment is his envy.
Undeserved punishment is better than that which is deserved.
If you opress who is below you then you won't be safe from the punishment of who is above you.
Two things rule the world -- reward and punishment.
Laws without punishment are like bells with no clackers.
Every sin brings its punishment with it.
A sin of gold is followed by a punishment of lead.
What a man suffers is the punishment of his tongue.
Look not at thieves eating meat, but look at them suffering punishment.
Children and the deaf are the punishment of God.
No man deserves punishment for his thoughts.
One man's punishment is a deterrent to many.
Punishment is a cripple, but it arrives.
The bad refrain from sin from fear of punishment.
Punishment awaits crime.
Justice is exercised in the proper prevention, rather than in the severe punishment, of crime.
Punishment awaits all offences.
Providence may delay, but punishment will come at length.
You are sure to marry a woman either beautiful or ugly; If ugly she will be a punishment; if beautiful, you will share her with others. Therefore do not marry.
With the three means of punishment, words, thoughts and acts, ye shall not injure living things.
Punishment is lame but it comes.
Punishment is assigned for the swaggerer; he is afflicted with diseases.
"No punishment without law.”.
Jesus Christ was crucified by public opinion.
Affairs of the home should not be discussed in the public square.
Home affairs are not talked about on the public square.
He that is good for something is the ass of the public.
He who serves the public has a sorry master.
An Elder does not break wind in public, but in a latrine.
Who can escape envy and blame, that speaks or writes for public fame?
Better a quiet death than a public misfortune.
One who curses someone in public, brings it on himself in private.
To be a public man is slavery.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
He who builds on the public way, must let the people have their say.
Public money is like holy water, every one helps himself to it.
Who serves the public, serves no one.
Gamblers do not contribute to the public welfare.
He hangs out the dirty linen, to the public.
Admonish your friends in private, praise them in public.
The public is an animal with many heads.
Home affairs cannot be told to the public.
Home affairs are not to be carried on in the public square.
Who serves the public, serves a fickle master.
It is at home, not in public, that one washes his dirty linen.
There are more whores in hiding than there are public ones.
He who gives to the public, gives to no one.
He seeks renown by public applause.
Public before private and country before family.
He that puts on a public gown must put off a private person.
One does not wash one's dirty linen in public.
If the rope is weak, pull gently.
You cannot pull a fish out of the pond without work.
You can pull back your leg, but not your committed word.
If a man puts a cord around his neck, God will provide someone to pull it.
It is easy to pull a thorn out of someone else's skin.
When your horse in on the brink of a precipice, it is too late to pull the reins.
Love your neighbor, yet pull not down your hedge.
Milk the cow, but do not pull off the udder.
Don't pull hard enough to break the rope.
A sincere invitation is accompanied by a pull.
Love thy neighbour, but pull not down thy hedge.
Can I pull down the sun with a forked stick, or prevent it from running its course?
Pull gently at a weak rope.
Milk the cow, but don't pull off the udder.
Even hares pull a lion by the beard when he is dead.
If you pull one pig by the tail all the rest squeak.
A fool may throw into a well a stone which a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
To him who puts a cord around his neck, God will supply someone to pull it.
You must be strong to pull a rope against a stronger.
You cannot pull hard with a broken rope.
Love your neighbour, but don't pull down the fence.
To pull somebody by a wire.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
Abundance will make cotton pull a stone.
Dig the hoe in well in the vineyard and pull out the bad growth and the weed.
The door of success is marked ‘push and pull.'
You pull chestnuts from the fire with a cat's paws.
He who is anxious for the death of another has a long rope to pull.
A long pull and a strong pull and a pull altogether.
Pull out the beak and the tail gets stuck, pull out the tail and the beak gets stuck.
While trying to pull down something from the antique she lost what she had under her armpit.
Abundance will make cotton pull a stone.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
If the best man's faults were written on his forehead, it would make him pull his hat over his eyes.
Love your neighbour, yet don't pull down your hedge.
Ambition is putting a ladder against the sky.
Taking out without putting in, soon comes to the bottom.
There's no putting off a lie upon the belly.
Don't go putting wool on a sheep's back.
Putting the fox to mind the geese.
It is more fun doing evil than putting it right.
Your head is not only for putting a hat on.
Putting salt on every snail.
Always taking out and never putting in, soon reaches the bottom.
By always taking out and never putting in, the bottom is soon reached.
Rare is the person who can weigh the faults of another without putting his thumb on the scale.
In studying the way, realizing it is hard; once you have realized it, preserving it is hard. When you can preserve it, putting it into practice is hard.
Putting out a fire while holding firewood.
A man who is putting on his armour for war should not boast like a man who's taking it off.
Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?
A lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is still putting on its shoes.
Putting the cart before the horse.
A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Putting importance to an irrelevant and unnecessary occasion.
Always taking Out of the meal-tub, and never putting in, soon comes to the bottom.
It is ill putting a sword in a madman's hand.
Taking out and not putting in soon reaches the bottom.
Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?
A fool may be known by six things anger, without cause speech, without profit change, without progress inquiry, without object putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Putting a withe around sand. Compare the English "a rope of sand.”.
Laughing wife, crying purse.
You are worth as much as your purse.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
Ask thy purse what thou should'st buy.
When I have money in my purse, I have food in my mouth.
Justice oft leans to the side where the purse pulls.
You cannot make a silk purse of a sow's ear.
A dainty stomach beggars the purse.
Let your purse be your master.
The best way to keep loyalty in a man's heart is to keep money in his purse.
The heavier the purse, the lighter the heart.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
An empty purse, and a finished house, make a man wise, but too late.
Open your purse, and I will open my mouth.
He who has four and spends five, has no need of a purse.
Let not the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.
An empty purse frights away friends.
You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
Moderate profits fill the purse.
It is the petty expenses that empty the purse.
A beautiful woman smiling, bespeaks a purse weeping.
It is the small expenses that empty your purse.
Who has no money in his purse must have honey in his mouth.
Your wife's eyes are in your purse.
Words do not fill your purse.
An empty purse can't stand alone and a full purse can't bend.
If you want to eat freshly caught fish, you don't want to have a tight purse.
A friend is better than money in the purse.
He who pays well is master of another man's purse.
It is easy to be liberal out of another man's purse.
Light gains make a heavy purse.
He that has not money in his purse should have honey in his mouth.
Giving alms never lessens the purse.
A blow to another's purse is like a blow to a mountain of sand.
Virtue carries an empty purse.
He that has no silver in his purse, should have silver on his tongue.
Industry keeps the body healthy, . . . and the purse full.
Ye canna mak a silk purse out o' a sow's lug.
Friends tie thier purse with a cobweb thread.
Thrift is a great revenue. a little, often, leaves wrinkles in the purse.
A heart free from care is better than a full purse.
All water flows into the ocean or into the purse of the rich.
Alms do not empty the purse, and a mass does not exhaust the day's duty.
Take off your hat quickly but slowly take hold of your purse.
He who doesn't open his eyes when he buys must still open his purse to pay.
Gold is gold, though it be in a rogue's purse.
It is easy to be generous out of another man's purse.
Let no one look into your heart or into your purse.
One man is born to money, and another to the purse.
Better an empty purse than an empty head.
Good wine ruins the purse, and bad the stomach.
He who cannot pay with his purse must pay with his hide.
Much wit is lost in a poor man's purse.
Doctors purge the body, ministers the conscience, lawyers the purse.
He who does not open his eyes must open his purse.
Money in the purse dispels melancholy.
A lordly taste make a beggar's purse.
So it goes in the world: one has the purse, the other has the gold.
A handsome hostess is bad for the purse.
The purse of loved ones is tied with a gossamer thread.
Good bargains empty the purse.
Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great ones by the purse.
He who pays well is master of another man's purse.
Never let people see the bottom of your purse or of your mind.
Never let the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.
Never reveal the bottom of your purse or the depth of your mind.
Friends tie their purse with a cobweb thread.
A beggar's purse is bottomless.
He that has a full purse never wanted a friend.
A friend in Court is worth a penny in purse.
A teem purse makes a bleat merchant.
Small winning makes a heavy purse.
Light winning makes a heavy purse.
Ye cannot make a silk purse of a sows lug.
A toom purse makes a pratling merchant.
Not to oversee workmen, is to leave your purse open.
A full purse cannot bend.
Be slow to reach for your purse and quick to tip your hat.
You cannot make a silk purse from a sow's ear.
He who would travel through the land, must go with open purse in hand.
Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great ones by the purse.
Better to have a friend on the road than gold and silver in your purse.
A handsome hostess is bad for the purse.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.
The mouth and the purse, shut.
He who builds a house, or marries, is left with a lank purse.
When there are two friends to one purse, one sings, the other weeps.
Possessions dwindle: I mourn their loss. But I mourn the loss of time much more, for anyone can save his purse, but none can win back lost time.
If anyone is not willing to accept your point of view, try to see his point of view.
There are many paths to the top of the mountain, but the view is always the same.
A house full of people is a house full of different points of view.
A house full of people is filled with different points of view.
Unless you're the lead sled dog, the view is pretty much the same.
Eyes have no screens, they see all that is within view.
If you don't scale the mountain, you can't view the plain.
You must scale the mountain if you want to view the plain.
There are many paths up the mountain, but the view from the top is always the same.
Everything is beautiful once the eye likes the view.
He who stands by his point of view, must be ready to suffer hunger.
Distance lends enchantment to the view.
He who stands by his point of view, must be ready to suffer hunger.
A clear conscience is more valuable than wealth.
A good name is more valuable than a velvet garment.
Listen to valuable statements even if they come from your enemy's mouth.
Experience runs a valuable school, but fools learn in no other.
It is wisdom to prevent someone from whom one cannot accept repayment to have access to one's valuable possessions.
Of all the female qualities a warm heart is the most valuable.
Discouragement is the devil's most valuable tool.
A timid or cowardly person may be raised against the most valuable and useful things.
Loyalty is more valuable than diamonds.
Sorrows are valuable treasures that you only show to your friends.
What is placed in the fire has a valuable role to play but leaves nothing behind when it's gone.
Gluttony and vanity grow with age.
Vanity blossoms but bears no fruit.
If deeds are wanting, all words appear mere vanity and emptiness.
Life is vanity.
Pride that dines on vanity sups on contempt.
Virtue would not go far, if a little vanity walked not with it.
Vanity has no greater foe than vanity.
Beauty's sister is vanity, and its daughter lust.
Treat everything of this world as mere vanity.
A large eye does not mean keen vision.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day.
Where there is no vision, people perish.
He who is narrow of vision cannot be big of heart.
If you see in your wine the reflection of a person not in your range of vision, don't drink it.
Faith is the vision of the heart.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision.
A good well-lived today makes every yesterday a dream of a good future, and every morning is a vision of hope.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow is but a vision.
Vision quest should be continuous.
If your vision is for a year plant wheat, if you vision is for a decade plant trees, and if your vision is for a lifetime plant people.
Faith is the vision of the heart.
A girl, a vineyard and a bean field are difficult to guard.
Whoever sows within the vineyard, neither reaps a crop nor harvests grapes.
A house ready built and a vineyard ready planted.
Fear guards the vineyard.
Fear guards the vineyard.
You surround your vineyard with thorns - place doors and locks on your mouth.
As Maguni the Carthaginian used to say: work to the vineyard, mind the store.
Dig the hoe in well in the vineyard and pull out the bad growth and the weed.
It's better to have ringworm than a farm and vineyard.
Whoever wants a good must should hoe the vineyard in August.
The hoer hoes in his own vineyard.
A good vineyard provides bread, wine, and firewood.
A purchased vineyard is tantamount to a stolen vineyard.
The sweetest grapes are picked from the vineyard of friendship.
The father gave his son a vineyard, the son didn't give the father even a grape.
He who has a good looking wife, a castle on the river, or a vineyard on the roadside is never without war.
He who has a handsome wife, a castle on the frontier, or a vineyard on the roadside, is never without war.
the father bequeathed a vineyard to his son, but the son denied his father even a bunch of grapes.
Every vine must have its stake.
A ripened fruit does not cling to the vine.
The pumpkin vine never bears watermelons.
Getting only a beautiful woman is like planting a vine on the roadside everyone feeds on it.
The vine says to the vintager: "make me poor, and I will make you rich.”.
There is truth in vine.
You think you are strong like the corn plant, yet the bean vine is already choking you.
A melon forced off its vine is not sweet.
The vine brings forth three grapes: the first of pleasure, the second of drunkenness, the third of sorrow.
When wise men play mad pranks they do it with a vengeance.
Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord.
The noblest vengeance is to forgive.
An honorable death requires no vengeance.
Where vice is vengeance follows.
Water does not stick to the mountain, and vengeance does not stick to a big heart.
A woman's vengeance knows no bounds.
The threatener loses the opportunity of vengeance.
Where vice goes before, vengeance follows after.
God exercises vengeance in silence.
The noblest vengeance is to forgive.
The noblest vengeance is to forgive.
Vengeance is slow, but stern.
When the rain falls in the valley, the hill gets angry.
Every hill has its valley.
Walk in the valley of our ancestors, learn of the history, and marvel at the beauty.
No hill without gravestones, no valley without shadows.
The higher the mountain the lower the valley, the taller the tree the harder the fall.
It rained on the mountaintop, but it was the valley below that got flooded.
Always a valley before a hill.
He that stays in the valley, shall never get over the hill.
Act in the valley so that you need not fear those who stand on the hill.
He that stays in the valley will not get over the hill.
He who has no voice in the valley, will have none in the council.
Cry to the valley.
While they are in the valley he treats her as his wife, while on the hill he treats her as his sister.
Even God cannot make two mountains without a valley in between.
So you tell me there are wolves on the mountain, and foxes in the valley.
Venture all; see what fate brings.
Try the ice before you venture on it.
He that dares not venture must not complain of ill luck.
Naught venture, naught have.
Great estates may venture more; little boats must keep near shore.
Never venture out of your depth till you can swim.
Venture a small fish to catch a much greater one.
Venture not to defend what your judgment doubts of.
A true friend does sometime venture to be offensive.
Nothing venture, nothing have.
Nothing venture, nothing gain.
Who does not venture gets neither horse nor mule, and who ventures too much lose horse and mule.
Naething venture, naething have.
Never venture out of your depth till you can swim.
When it is in an unlucky phase, the vulture below, shits on the vulture above.
God provides for the blind vulture.
The vulture embraced the chicken until its last breath.
No matter how hungry the vulture, it will never eat grass.
No matter how high the vulture may choose to soar, the eagle will remain king of the sky.
The vulture perches on the trees because it does not feel sure on the ground.
A sparrow in hand is worth more than a vulture flying.
When they wish to eat a vulture, they call it a guinea fowl.
The vulture perches on the trees because it does not feel sure on the groung.
It is easier to visit friends than to live with them.
A short visit is best and that not too often.
The countries you visit, the customs you find.
Misfortune does not visit the weak-hearted.
If two doctors visit a sick man, the sexton rings the bells.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you visit a place where the chief himself sits on floor.
When problems visit a man it arrives with its own bed and table.
A man and a goat can be friends but it would be foolishness for the goat to pay the first visit.
Visit infrequently, and you will get closer.
Only the foolish visit the land of the cannibals.
A hoe made small from loving work came to visit and together we cultivated our relationship. When united everything is possible.
Only the foolish visit the land of the cannibals.
Better visit hell in your lifetime than after you're dead.
Visit your aunt, but not every day of the year.
The prolonged visit of no guest is pleasant.
Sickness is a visit by God.
Covetousness is always filling a bottomless vessel.
A sinking vessel needs no navigation.
A wise man adapts himself to circumstances as water shapes itself according to the vessel that contains it.
The empty vessel makes the greatest sound.
The cheese vessel will not sail merely by words.
A crazy vessel never falls from the hand.
Navigate your vessel alone.
Every vessel has its own waves.
When a large vessel has opened a way it is easy for a small one to follow.
Advice, like water, takes the form of the vessel which it is poured into.
He is most likely to spill who holds the vessel in his hand.
Wine will not keep in a foul vessel.
An empty vessel makes the most sound.
An empty vessel makes the most noise.
Our passions are the winds that propel our vessel. Our reason is the pilot that steers her. Without winds the vessel would not move and without a pilot she would be lost.
A vessel filled with water does not make a noise when shaken.
Without love everything is in vain.
'tis altogether vain to learn wisdom, and yet live foolishly.
One washes the body in vain if one does not wash the soul.
Because of their figure, vain women stay cold.
He labours in vain who tries to please everybody.
Money spent on brain is never spent in vain.
A vain belief, unprofitable.
All skill is in vain when an angel pees in the touchhole of your musket.
He gains a great deal who loses a vain hope.
It is in vain to lay a net in sight of the birds.
He gains much who loses a vain hope.
He has gained enough who gives up a vain hope.
If women were not vain, men could teach them how to be.
Vain speeches lead a man to the gallows.
It's vain to learn wisdom yet live foolishly.
A man gains nothing by vain glory but contempt and hatred.
A handsome woman is either silly or vain.
You shake in vain the branch that bears no fruit.
Money spent on the mind is never spent in vain.
When we can't find peace in ourselves it is vain to look for it elsewhere.
Let no man deceive you with vain words.
The wolf barks in vain at the moon.
Watching women is labour in vain.
The dog that bites does not bark in vain.
Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain.
In vain is the mill-clock if the miller his hearing lack.
Nature does nothing in vain.
Who winks to the blind, does work in vain.
Who can't help, listens in vain.
You shout in vain when you're calling the deaf.
A vain woman is not worth a nickel.
After the act wishing is in vain.
Of all pains, the greatest pain, is to love, but love in vain.
He argues in vain who argues without means.
He is wise in vain who does not use his wisdom for his own advantage.
All is in vain unless Providence is with us.
He is consumed by a vain hope.
It is vain to do that by a multitude which a few can accomplish.
Unless what we do is useful, glory is vain.
The world is like an old building on the banks of a stream – it carries away piece by piece; in vain you stop it with a handful of earth.
You'll regret in vain when you scorn good advice.
God and nature do not work together in vain.
For the ugly vice of begging, there's the virtue of not giving.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
How many daily read the Word, and yet from vice are not deterred.
Pleasure is the greatest incentive to vice.
The excess of a virtue is a vice.
The wicked even hate vice in others.
Sloth is the beginning of vice.
He that spares vice wrongs virtue.
After one vice a greater follows.
Virtue practiced to be seen is not real virtue; vice which fears to be seen is real vice.
Virtue: climbing a hill; vice: running down.
Practice no vice because it's trivial; neglect no virtue because it's so.
Pride is said to be the last vice the good man gets clear of.
Pride is the last vice a good man gets clear of.
Poverty is no vice, but an inconvenience.
Vice is often clothed in virtue's habit.
Hypocrisy is a homage that vice pays to virtue.
Until your fortieth it is better to eat than to drink; afterwards it is vice versa.
Vice hides under a cloak of virtue.
Work relieves us from three great evils, boredom, vice, and want.
No one ever suddenly reached the height of vice.
It is easier to run from virtue to vice, than from vice to virtue.
Vice is nourished by concealment.
Where vice goes before, vengeance follows after.
Vice is often clothed in virtue's habit.
Welcome Vice, if it comest alone.
Pride is the last vice a good man gets clear of.
Vice is learnt without a schoolmaster.
Vice often rides triumphantly in the coach of virtue.
Poverty is no vice but an inconvenience.
Poverty is not a vice.
The voice of the people is louder than the boom of a canon.
Lower your voice and strengthen your argument.
The tulip is, among flowers, what the peacock is among birds. A tulip lacks scent, a peacock has an unpleasant voice. The one takes pride in its garb, the other in its tail.
The voice of a poor man does not carry very far.
Conscience is the voice of the soul.
Voice of one, voice of none.
Even the crow sings with its own voice.
Before you let your voice be heard, first lick your lips.
The voice of the people is the will of god.
The voice that comes to borrow is more humble than the voice that comes to sake payment.
Give every man your ear but few your voice.
They asked a bullfrog, "Why do you croak all the time?” He replied, "I'm enchanted with my voice.”.
The people's voice is God's voice.
Jacob's voice, Esau's hands.
Sweet is the voice of the man who has wealth.
A loud voice can make even the truth sound foolish.
Three things that can't be taught: generosity, poetry and a singing voice.
Every bird relishes his own voice.
Listen to the voice of nature, For it holds treasures for you.
Listen to the voice of your blood.
Those who do not listen to the voice of the elderly are like trees without roots.
Who listens to the voice of the elderly is like a strong tree; who turns a deaf ear is like a twig in the wind.
The peacock hath fair feathers, but a foul voice.
A man will never heed the voice of a woman until it is too late.
A sweet lovely voice cannot make a dumb person talk.
A mockingbird has no voice of his own.
The people's voice, God's voice.
The voice of the people is the voice of God.
The earth has ears, the wind has a voice.
He who has no voice in the valley, will have none in the council.
The voice of the people is the voice of God.
Often a silent face has voice and words.
The voice of the duck is the glory of the marshes.
The voice of the frog is the glory of the marsh waters.
To the trustworthy man belongs a divine voice. The barge on the river and the chariot on the road come to him.
For lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone. The flowers appear on the earth, the time of pruning the vines has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
They asked a bullfrog, They asked a bullfrog, "Why do you croak all the time?" He replied, "I'm enchanted with my voice."
A woman's voice arouses lust in a man.
The wood pigeon's voice is the glory of the garden.
The francolin's voice is the glory of the fields.
The voice of the forest kujanun bird is the glory of the tamarisks.
The bird sings with its voice but the grasshopper sings with its thighs.
It is the kindness, and not the harshness, in the headmaster's voice that pushes tough boys to cry.
A fool's voice is known by a multitude of words.
Eloquence avails nothing against the voice of gold.
Victory makes you into an emperor, defeat into a rebel.
Nothing is so full of victory as patience.
After victory, tighten your helmet chord.
Don't divide the spoil before the victory is won.
Victory must be earned.
In war, there is nothing more honorable than victory.
Mere life is not a victory, mere death is not a defeat.
Victory has 100 fathers and defeat is an orphan.
We learn little from victory, but a great deal from defeat.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
Pardon is the choicest flower of victory.
The cock often crows without a victory.
On the day of victory no fatigue is felt.
Victory is not gained by idleness.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
Do not divide the spoil till the victory is won.
Those who fight with silver spears are sure of their victory.
There is no victory without sacrifice.
Give way to him with whom you contend; by doing so you will gain the victory.
Sing not of triumph before the victory.
Destroying an Empire to win a war is no victory. And ending a battle to save an Empire is no defeat.
Without temptation there is no victory.
The only victory over love is flight.
Beware of the vinegar of sweet wine.
Vinegar that is free, is sweeter than honey.
Donated vinegar is sweeter than honey.
From the sweetest wine, the tartest vinegar.
Strong is the vinegar of sweet wine.
Nunziata, fix the salad, a little vinegar, lots of oil, four reckless mouthfuls, and then some drinks from the jug.
More flies are taken with a drop of honey than a tun of vinegar.
More flies are caught with a spoonful of syrup than with a barrel full of vinegar.
Even vinegar is sweet when for freebie.
Let the salad-maker be a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a statesman for salt, and a madman for tossing.
A spoonful of honey will catch more flies than a gallon of vinegar.
You catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
More flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
A drop of honey catches more flies than a hogshead of vinegar.
Sweet wine makes sour vinegar.
The sweetest wine makes the sharpest vinegar.
As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, the truest lover may turn into the worst enemy.
Beware of vinegar made of sweet wine.
Grapes picked too early don't even make good vinegar.
Vinegar is the son of wine.
One catches more flies with a spoonful of honey than with twenty casks of vinegar.
Vinegar that is too sour even taints the glass it's kept in.
As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, so the deepest love turns to the deadliest hatred.
Honey catches more flies than vinegar.
You can catch more flies with honey than you can with vinegar.
Vinegar is the son of wine.
Full of piss and vinegar.
You will catch more flies with a spoonful of honey than with a gallon of vinegar.
The four seasons are salt, pepper, mustard and vinegar.
Flies are easier caught with honey than with vinegar.
The person who has been a slave from birth does not value rebellion.
The reception has more value than the invitation.
Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.
To a dog a bone has more value than a pearl.
There is no choosing between two things of no value.
One who does not travel will not know that value of men.
One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food.
Don't estimate the value of a badger skin before catching the badger.
Not cheap without reason, nor dear without value.
Don't value a gem by what it is set in.
He who got out of his home lessened his value.
Stinginess demeans the value of man.
It is not till the cow has lost her tail, that she discovers its value.
He knows the price of everything and the value of nothing.
Without pressing too little or too hard, hold tight the reins for he's a fool who would not get value from a borrowed horse.
The ass does not know the value of his tail till he has lost it.
A good neighbor increases the value of your property.
Where there is no bridge the smallest plank is of great value.
An indispensable thing never has much value.
To know that candles are expensive is of no value to the blind man.
Only with a new ruler do you realize the value of the old.
Among the ignorant a little knowledge is of great value.
Only the man who crosses the river at night knows the value of the light of day.
A diamond doesn't lose its value due to lack of admiration.
A man who does no hard work will never know the value of rest.
The kola nut stays longer in the mouths of those who value it.
The dead man doesn't know the value of his coffin.
If you want to know the value of money, try borrowing some.
If you would know the value of a ducat, try to borrow one.
There's little value in the single cow.
The dead do not know the value of white sheets.
During sickness, you recognize the value of good health.
You never value something as much as when it's gone.
What value is a needle without an eye?
The cow does not know the value of her tail till she has lost it.
Every man has his value.
Who has never been burned in the sun won't know the value of shadow.
If you want to know the value of money, go and borrow some.
A woman's advice is of little value, but he who does not take it is a fool.
It doubles the value of a gift to be well-timed.
We learn the value of things more in their loss than in their enjoyment.
The value of a person is measured by the happiness he gave to others in life.
Gold should be sold to the one who knows the value of it.
Don't value a gem by what it is set in.
It is not good for all our wishes to be filled; through sickness we recognize the value of health; through evil, the value of good; through hunger, the value of food; through exertion, the value of rest.
What value is a needle without an eye?
Good sense is of greater value than wealth.
In a village with too many roosters morning will come late.
In the village without dogs the farmers walk without sticks.
In the village that you don't know, the chickens have teeth.
Slowly but surely the excrement of foreign poets will come to your village.
The village feeds the town.
Get along with the village headman, plunder the village.
In a deserted village the jackass is king.
If you hold high office, the whole village will share your fame.
If you sell a drum in your own village, you get the money and keep the sound.
Entering the village, obey the village.
The blacksmith in one village becomes a blacksmith's apprentice in another.
Go out from your village: don't let your village go out form you.
It takes a village to raise a child.
your words are fair,” said the wolf, "but I will not come into the village.
It is not good to be the poet of a village.
It is a poor village that has neither smoke nor fire.
A list full of gain and a village full of shame.
Bandage up your finger and take a walk in the village to see how many medical people you will meet.
Better an ugly duckling from your own village than a beauty from foreign parts.
A home without guests, a village without shepherds, both are hopeless indeed.
The dead will go to the village where the cock doesn't crow.
Better the head of a village than the tail of a town.
Don't snap your fingers at the dogs before you are out of the village.
Every peasant is proud of the pond in his village because from it he measures the sea.
A village that you can see in a distance do not require a guide.
The village which is not discussed is not built.
It is easier to transport a termite hill than have authority in a village.
A village without elderly is unhappy.
It is easier to transport an ant hill than exercise authority in a village.
The wisdom of the elderly is like the sun, it illuminates the village and the great river.
Who mistrusts everybody is the real enemy of the village.
An undecided man is the worst disaster of the village.
Every village has certain drawbacks to it.
Where the rooster crows there is a village.
For our sins God has created three enemies for us: mice in the house, the fox in the mountains, and a priest in our village.
If you go to a rat's village and it is eating palm nuts, you eat some too.
It takes a whole village to raise a child.
A village united in fraternity is prosperous.
In every village, there is a path that leads to the mill.
The village cock does not crow in town.
Obey the customs of the village you enter.
Follow the villagers when you are in the new village.
On entering a country, ask what is forbidden, on entering a village, ask what are the customs, on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned.
Going into a country the first time, ask what is forbidden; on entering a village, ask what are the customs; on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned.
Where the rooster crows there is a village.
No matter how poor a village, there is always one rich man.
Don't see animals around the village and say there is nobody to hunt them.
A village without the elderly is like a well without water.
The cock belongs to one household, but when it crows it is heard in the whole village.
The village slatternly wench has the form of a dove, the heart of a fox, and the mind of an toad.
The Dog barks to keep itself, not the village.
Better be first in a village than second at Rome.
Children act in the village as they have learned at home.
Our elders say that at sunset, it is one's cloth that one goes to remove from the village square.
It takes a whole village to educate a child.
It takes a village to raise a child.
The whetstone in a village does no blunt the knife.
The village one can see requires no guide.
The sun does not forget a village just because it is small.
It takes a village to raise a child.
Your words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
After three years at a village schoolhouse, even a dog can recite a poem.
Beauty without virtue is a curse.
Adversity is the touchstone of virtue.
Nothing is comprehensible except by virtue of its edges.
By pride one causes virtue to decline.
Virtue never goes far without the company of idleness.
For the ugly vice of begging, there's the virtue of not giving.
Adversity is the foundation of virtue.
It is a little thing to starve to death; it is a serious matter to lose one's virtue.
When you enjoy loving your neighbor, it ceases to be a virtue.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
Beauty may open doors but only virtue enters.
Where there is shame, there is virtue.
There is no virtue in the herb that is not got in time.
Patience is a virtue that causes no shame.
First secure an independent income, then practice virtue.
The excess of a virtue is a vice.
To give quickly is a great virtue.
Virtue comes not from chance but long study.
The virtue of silence is a great piece of knowledge.
Extol the virtue of water, but drink wine.
Often a troll-woman is under fair skin, and virtue under dark hair.
Virtue consists in action.
Every virtue is but halfway between two vices.
Virtue is better than wealth.
Poverty does not destroy virtue nor wealth bestow it.
To show one's fist to a blind man is neither a sin nor a virtue.
Adhere to virtue honorably.
Virtue is the reward.
One need not enjoy virtue.
The sin for which you repent is the father of virtue; but a virtue that you talk about, is the mother of sin.
That which is a sin in others is a virtue in ourselves.
Virtue is not knowing but doing.
Wisdom and virtue are like the two wheels of a cart.
With virtue you can't be entirely poor; without virtue you can't really be rich.
Virtue becomes a wife; beauty becomes a concubine.
Virtue is not left to stand alone.
Virtue never dwells alone, it always has neighbors.
Virtue practiced to be seen is not real virtue; vice which fears to be seen is real vice.
Virtue: climbing a hill; vice: running down.
Aspire to the principle, behave with virtue, abide by benevolence, and immerse yourself in the arts.
Patience is a virtue.
The door to virtue is heavy and hard to open.
The virtue of a woman does not go deep but her passion knows no limit.
Practice no vice because it's trivial; neglect no virtue because it's so.
Adversity does best discover virtue.
Beauty is no longer amiable than while virtue adorns it.
Blood is inherited and virtue acquired.
Charity is a virtue of the heart and not of the hand.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
Sell not virtue to purchase wealth.
Where there is discipline there is virtue; where there is peace there is plenty.
Beauty without virtue is like a rose without scent.
There is no virtue in a promise unless it be kept.
Virtue never dies.
Virtue subdues power.
Virtue would not go far, if a little vanity walked not with it.
To call war the soil of courage and virtue is like calling debauchery the soil of love.
Hypocrisy is a homage that vice pays to virtue.
He forges a virtue on necessity.
A fair woman without virtue is like palled wine.
To get may rest on luck, to keep may rest on virtue.
Need makes Virtue.
Virtue is power.
Virtue is its own reward.
Beauty, unaccompanied by virtue, is as a flower without perfume.
He who sows virtue reaps fame.
Patience is the virtue of the donkeys.
Vice hides under a cloak of virtue.
The courteous learn their virtue from the discourteous.
Poverty does not destroy virtue, nor does wealth bestow it.
Virtue and valour rejoice in being put to the test.
Glory is the shadow of virtue.
It is easier to run from virtue to vice, than from vice to virtue.
Make a virtue of necessity.
Virtue our leader, fortune our companion.
Vices creep into our hearts under the name of virtue.
That which is a sin in others is a virtue in ourselves.
Virtue is power.
The greatest virtue is like water; good for everything.
Beauty is no longer amiable than while virtue adorns it.
Charity is a virtue of the heart and not of the hand.
Hospitality: the virtue which induces us to feed and lodge certain persons who are not in need of food and lodging. (Ambrose Bierce)
As the virtue in the tree, such is the fruit.
Praise is the hire of virtue.
Virtue is the reward of virtue.
Poverty does not lose its virtue.
Virtue is a jewel of great price.
Honour is the reward of virtue.
If tar, hard liquor and sauna do not cure; the disease is fatal.
A sauna - the poor man's pharmacy.
A sauna makes a woman most beautiful one hour after the bath.
Two are holy: a church and a sauna.
If a sauna, whiskey and tar do not help, the disease is fatal.
Where's sauna, there are the Estonians.
Two goodies: young woman and an old sauna.
It's the same to the sauna if the drying barn burns.
Sauna without birch switch is like a wedding without bride.
It bakes, said Ville Rasi in the sauna.
Everything is for sale, even friendship.
There is no better sale than when you give a true friend what he needs.
Sokeing sale is best.
A good buy is better than a good sale.
They put up minds for sale on the market, everyone liked his own mind.
Everyone put up his mind for sale on the market, and liked his own mind.
Where there is no rapport there is no sale. Enrolling people in your product or service is the same as enrolling them in you.
If power is for sale, sell your mother to buy it. You can always buy her back again.
Better good sale, nor good Ale.
Everything has an end--except a sausage, which has two.
A dog that has been bitten by a snake, fears the sausage.
The cat which did not reach the sausage said: Anyhow it is Friday.
The doghouse is no place to keep a sausage.
He who would buy sausage of a dog must give him bacon in exchange.
The dog's kennel is no place to keep a sausage.
If you don't want to be hung yourself, blame the dog for stealing the sausage.
The end of the pig is the beginning of the sausage.
Long sausage and short sermon are good.
Give the fool a sausage and he tells you it's bent.
The doghouse is no place to keep a sausage.
It is sad when the elephant dies, but the whole tribe can feed on it.
Without salt the feast is sad.
Marriage without love-making means sad consequences and sorrow.
What a sad basket, leaving and returning empty.
What a sad bench it is that has never been sat upon by a grey beard.
A sad bride makes a glad wife.
If the heart is sad, tears will flow.
If you are sad, act.
The saddest thing is the death of the heart.
A satisfied man is happy even if he is poor; a dissatisfied man is sad even if he is rich.
It's better to eat pepper and be happy than to eat honey and be sad.
The saddest dog sometimes wags its tail.
The envious person is a sad person.
More sad than al khansaa' for sakhr.
Only he who understands is really sad.
Fire and faggot are but sad reformers.
Self-love is bad, and makes the eyes sad.
May the saddest day of your future be no worse than the happiest day of your past.
An honest wife is a treasure that lasts, a sad wife is worse than the plague.
A cow-year, a sad year; a bull-year, a glad year.
If you feel sad, laugh.
It is a sad heart that never rejoices.
A coward has no scar.
He laughs at scar who has received no wound.
An ill-tempered dog has a scarred nose.
The wound heals, the scar remains.
A wound heals but the scar remains.
The sore is cured but the scar remains.
One with a scar, do not think him healed.
A wound never heals so well that the scar cannot be seen.
Even if the wound is healed, the scar of it remains.
There's no better sauce than a good appetite.
Make not the sauce till you have caught the fish.
A fish should swim thrice: in water, in sauce, and in wine.
A good appetite needs no sauce.
A good appetite does not want sauce.
Sweet meat requires sour sauce.
Dont make sauce before catching fish.
Sauce for the goose, is sauce for the gander.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Hunger is the best sauce.
For wolf's flesh dog sauce.
A good appetite needs no sauce.
All sails do not suit every ship.
You can't direct the wind, but you can adjust your sails.
We cannot direct the wind, but we can adjust the sails.
A man without money is like a ship without sails.
One should set sails with the tide.
Mackerel sky and mares' tails make lofty ships carry low sails.
Fear blows wind into your sails.
The water that a ship sails on is the same water that swallows it up.
A man without money is like a boat without sails.
Set the sails according to the wind.
We cannot direct the wind, but we can adjust the sails.
Words without ideas are like sails without wind.
We can't change the direction of the wind, but we can adjust the sails.
He takes the wind out of someone's sails.
For the sake of a single rose, the gardener becomes servant to a thousand thorns.
As to flowers, when half open; as to sake, when a person is half tipsy.
The voice that comes to borrow is more humble than the voice that comes to sake payment.
It is not for my own sake, said the fox, "that I say there is a good goose-green in the wood."
One kisses the child for the mother's sake, and the mother for the child's sake.
No woman marries an old man for God's sake.
We will water the thorn for the sake of the rose.
For the sake of one good action, a hundred evil ones should be forgotten.
Going to law is losing a cow for the sake of a cat.
For the sake of the flowers, the weeds are watered.
An honest man does not make himself a dog for the sake of a bone.
Many kiss the child for the nurse's sake.
"o what we must suffer for the sake of God's church!” said the abbot, when the roast fowl burned his fingers.
One kisses the nurse for the sake of the child.
Many caress the child for the sake of the wet nurse.
If the Devil were dead, folk would do little for God's sake.
If one would not eat pounded yam for its own sake, one can still eat it for the sake of the soup that goes with it.
Who begs for the sake of mischief steals from the God.
I prostrate myself for the sake of Gula, my lady, but in my own eyes I don't have a place to stand.
The sermon will not be preached twice for one deaf's sake.
A market is not held for the sake of one person.
Whoever argues for the sake of argument is a boor.
For fashion's sake as dogs gang to the market.
I pointed out the stars and moon to you, but all you saw was the tip of my finger.
After I saw what my mother did, I will never trust a widow.
They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow.
I saw a man, who saw another man, who saw the sea.
I saw you at Lucca, I knew you at Pisa.
I never saw an oft-removed tree, nor yet an oft-removed family, that throve so well as one that settled be.
It is a bad workman that has a bad saw.
As you see yourself, I once saw myself; as you see me now, you will be seen.
I saw and was silent, I saw and pondered, I listened to the speech of men.
"I heard" is good; "I saw" is better.
Old people's speech is not to be dishonored-after all, they saw the sun first.
Own kin are the worst friends, said the fox, when he saw the foxy dogs after him.
As you see yourself, I once saw myself; as you see me now, you will be seen.
No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger.
You shouldn't saw off the branch you're sitting on.
Common saw sindle lies.
If you saw what the river carried, you would never drink the water.
Hunger never saw bad bread.
Where you saw wood, there the sawdust will fall.
The frog saw how the horses were shod, so she also lifted up her foot.
Nanni cherished his old age. [...] He captured Simurrum, but [...] he never saw mighty kingship. Thus Nanni was carried off to the nether world.
Close to a blacksmith, learn to hammer out nails; close to a carpenter, learn how to use a saw.
Ye never saw green cheese but your e'en reei'd.
You can keep away from the rogue, but you cannot keep yourself safe from the liar.
God promises a safe landing but not a calm passage.
The tongue is safe; even among thirty teeth.
God keeps those safe who keep themselves safe.
When he opens up his path, may he carry me along, safe and sound.
Who dies today is safe from tomorrow's sin.
God promises a safe landing, but not a calm passage.
Better to be safe than sorry.
If you opress who is below you then you won't be safe from the punishment of who is above you.
Security is nowhere safe.
My chest locked, my soul safe.
You may keep yourself safe from fire, but not from a bad man.
An italian only feels safe with his hook in his belt.
A friend at one's back is a safe bridge.
Call the bear "uncle” till you are safe across the bridge.
The way to be safe is never to feel secure.
If you run too fast you bypass a safe place you would have hidden yourself.
It is easy to be brave from a safe distance.
It is best to be on the safe side.
When there is no enemy it is safe to fight.
Safe over the bridge, one laughs at St. Nepomuck.
The middle path is the safe path.
He who builds and he who marries are never safe.
If you leave the safe open even a saint will sin.
A good swimmer is not safe against drowning.
He that is too secure is not safe.
Keep the common road, and thou'rt safe.
A beaten track is a safe one.
Quick enough, if safe enough.
You have left the sheep with the wolf for safe custody.
Better be safe than sorry.
Cowboy coffee ain't safe drinkin'.
It is best to be on the safe side.
Best to be on the safe side.
Better safe than sorry.
Better safe than sorry.
The way to be safe is never to feel secure.
With a friend behind you, you have a safe bridge.
What we own, we don't [safe]keep [properly]; when [we] lose [it], [we] cry.
A house without a wife is like a safe without money.
At home saints never perform miracles.
Home saints don't make miracles.
If the patient dies, the doctor has killed him, but if he gets well, the saints have saved him.
In small churches, small saints are big..
You only know saints by their miracles.
Even the saints' patience has its limits.
Great men may jest with saints.
Pilgrims seldom come home saints.
The old saints are forgotten in the new.
Saints appear to fools.
A lot of people become saints because of their stomach.
Old saints don't get incense anymore.
A cask of wine works more miracles than a church full of saints.
All saints do not work miracles.
Before you find God, you will be eaten by saints.
Dancing at the carnival, baptizing on all saints day.
The first seeding on the feast of All Saints and the last on the feast of Saint Andrew.
The way of this world is to praise dead saints and persecute living ones.
Little saints also perform miracles.
All are not saints that go to church.
One can't enter Paradise in spite of the saints.
All are not saints who go to church.
When the danger has passed, the saints are soon forgotten.
How much is prestige worth, not as much as Palermo, if you take away the saints.
Saints sleep three hours, merchants sleep five, ordinary people seven and the lazy sleep nine.
All are not saints that go to church.
It is better to have to do with God than with his saints.
Why hide from God what the saints already know?
When the fields yield not, the saints have not.
When God will not, the saints cannot.
They are not all saints who use holy water.
A mouse will scare a thief.
Work doesn't scare him, but he could lay down near it and sleep.
He that will take the bird must not scare it.
Burn not your house to scare away the mice.
He must cry aloud who would scare the devil.
It's hard to scare a person who thinks he will benefit from dying.
It is difficult to scare people who think they will profit from dying.
The dog was asked: Why do you bark? - To scare the wolves. - Why do you wag your tail? -What do you think, am I not afraid of wolves?
To scare a bird is not the way to catch it.
Good perfume is known by its scent rather than by the perfumer's advertisement.
The scent of every flower is short lived.
Remember the scent.
The scent of a rose will always stay on the hand of the giver.
Beauty without virtue is like a rose without scent.
Painted flowers have no scent.
A new pot retains its first scent.
A woman without love is like a rose without a scent.
Painted flowers have no scent.
A sore finger and a headache are standard excuses for not going to school.
Experience is a dear school, but fools learn in no other.
Heresy is the school of pride.
A foreign language is more easily learned in the kitchen than at school.
When your devil was born, mine was going to school.
Experience runs a valuable school, but fools learn in no other.
All knowledge is not taught in one school.
To tell tales out of school.
Education doesn't come by bumping your head against the school house.
Tell no tales out of school.
Ability has no school.
John has been to school to learn to be a fool.
Ability has no school.
Taught in the same school.
Never tell tales out of school.
Despise school and remain a fool.
Experience keeps no school, she teaches her pupils singly.
A mother is a school, preparing her is like preparing a good nation.
Lenin's science strengthens the mind and the hands.
Science makes men arrogant; wealth makes them fools.
Ask for a science that would be useful to you, would keep you from harm and shame, then elevate you.
Experimenting is the great science.
Experience is the mother of science.
Rivalry between scholars improves science.
To learn about other people is science, to learn to know yourself is intelligence.
You cannot lock up science in one head.
Much science, much sorrow.
There is no science without patience.
Do not teach a pike to swim, a pike knows his own science.
Science is unlimited in its course; life is short.
Patience passe science.
If you do not have sandals, find some, if you do not have gun powder, find some for a score to settle with you on the battle grounds.
If winning is not important, then why keep score.
Admitting error clears the score and proves you wiser than before.
Slander leaves a score behind it.
Before you can score, you must first have a goal.
Who lives on the score has shame evermore.
He needs say nothing about the score who pays nothing.
Before you score, you first must have a goal.
Admitting error clears the score and proves you wiser than before.
To sail is necessary, survive is not necessary.
It is safest to sail within reach of the shore.
Comes in at the end with a wet sail.
With many captains, the ship does not sail properly.
Raise your sail one foot and you get ten feet of wind.
Don't set sail on someone else's star.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
It is hard to sail over the sea in an egg-shell.
Pray once if you are going to fight, twice if you are going to sail, and thrice if you are going to get married.
You must shift your sail with the wind.
Nebber mek you sail too big fe you ship.
A full sail helped him to arrive.
It is good rowing with the sail set.
Keeping an eye on the sail.
He that is embarked with the devil must sail with him.
It is good rowing with set sail.
The cheese vessel will not sail merely by words.
Good people have set sail to arrive at such gentleness as cuts like diamonds.
It's not the gale but the set of the sail that determines the way you go.
Make not your sail too big for your ballast.
You cannot sail as you would, but as the wind blows.
He that is once at sea, must either sail or sink.
The three most beautiful sights: a potato garden in bloom, a ship under sail, and a woman after the birth of a child.
If you are going to fight, pray once; if you are going to sail, pray twice; if you are getting married, then pray thrice.
Who knows not how to pray let him go sail the sea.
He that forecasts all perils will never sail the sea.
Small boats sail, as well as ships.
In fair weather, in calm waters and in peaceful travel, even a coachman knows how to sail.
Privateer, sail while you have a good wind.
Men must sail while the wind serveth.
As the wind so the sail.
You sail in the same boat.
Being on sea, sail; being on land, settle.
The wind will let us neither sail nor stay.
Don't sail out farther than you can row back.
It's not the towering sail, but the unseen wind that moves the ship.
It's not the gale but the set of the sail that determines the way you go.
While it is fine weather, mend your sail.
If you are a friend of the captain, you can wipe your hands on the sail.
He that is embarked with the devil must sail with him.
Set your sail according to the wind.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
Being a good friend of a scorpion doesn't mean that you can't be stung by a honeybee.
Under every stone sleeps a scorpion.
A scorpion never stung me but I cured myself with its grease.
We keep an eye on the scorpion and the serpent, but we do not watch out for the millipede.
There is a scorpion under every stone.
He who has been stung by the scorpion is frightened at its shadow.
Every stone conceals a lurking scorpion.
Instead of a fish he gives you a scorpion.
To control the mind is like trying to control a drunken monkey that has been bitten by a scorpion.
When a thief finds nothing to steal he will steal a dagger made of sand.
He who is desperate will squeeze oil out of a grain of sand.
He who starts his work early enough is neither hit by the severe sun heat nor the burning sand.
Who builds on the mob builds on sand.
Who builds upon the people, builds upon sand.
The person who offends writes as if it was written on sand, and the person who is offended reads it as if it were written on marble.
He who offends writes on sand, he who is offended on marble.
The cricket is never blinded by the sand of its burrowing.
A blow to another's purse is like a blow to a mountain of sand.
Friendship is a furrow in the sand.
Getting money is like digging with a needle. Spending it is like water soaking into the sand.
Spending it is like pouring water into sand.
Shoot at someone's shadow with sand.
It's only the ant that hears the whispers of the sand.
United we are a rock, divided we are sand.
Knowledge without wisdom is like water without sand.
The best way to get someone to stop digging his heels in is to dig out the sand around him.
Even an ass will not fall twice in the same quick sand.
Write the bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece of marble.
If the water is available you need not clean up with sand.
Many grains of sand will sink a ship.
What you give, is written in sand; what you take, with an iron hand.
Who builds on sand, the fall is near.
Write injuries in the sand, kindnesses in marble.
You count the sand.
He is but a poor husbandman, who sows in sand.
You would weave a rope of sand.
You are but sowing in sand.
In the desert sand is cheap.
The torment of envy is like a grain of sand in the eye.
One grain of sand can tip the scale.
Putting a withe around sand. Compare the English "a rope of sand.”.
Who cannot beat the horse let him beat the saddle.
He who couldn't overcome the donkey took on the saddle.
They couldn't beat the donkey so they beat the saddle.
We will ride that colt when he is grown to wear a saddle.
Same donkey, different saddle.
He that cannot beat the horse beats the saddle.
Take a horse to the knacker, and throw in bridle and saddle.
Better the certainty of the straddle than the mere loan of a saddle.
Who eats his fowl alone, must saddle his horse alone.
A saddle fits more backs than one.
Sitting securely in the saddle.
When he looked under the saddle he lost his horse.
It's the same donkey, but with a new saddle.
The third time someone tries to put a saddle on you, you should admit you're a horse.
Who eats his cock alone must saddle his horse alone.
A horse of good breed is not dishonored by his saddle.
A horse that will not carry a saddle must have no oats.
Who rides slow, must saddle betimes.
The horse is not judged of by the saddle.
The grace of God is found between the saddle and the ground.
It is better to lose the saddle than the horse.
A good horse never lacks a saddle.
He is a weak Horse that may not bear the Saddle.
Who carries on his back is thrown from the saddle.
Uncollected olives, left at random fill neither the saddle bag nor the little sack.
Wedlock rides in the saddle and repentance on the crupper.
He that eats his fowl alone may saddle his horse alone.
He who rides behind another does not saddle when he will.
Every donkey has its own saddle.
Judge not the horse by his saddle.
Not able to take revenge on the donkey, take it out on the saddle.
A wounded horse trembles when he sees the saddle.
He that rides ahint anither doesna saddle when he pleases.
There is a deep sea between saying and doing.
Great consolation may grow out of the smallest saying.
Saying salaam is a sign of true faith.
Saying and doing are two different things.
A man was hanged for saying what was true.
There is no use in saying, I will not go such a way, nor drink of such a water.
The ox saying ‘horned' to the donkey.
From saying to doing is a long way.
It is not by saying, 'honey, honey,' that sweetness comes into the mouth.
It is for saying that he has no time that the monkey's body became over-grown with long hairs.
Wait until it is night before saying that it has been a fine day.
Saying that it's for her child, she gets herself a loaf of bread.
When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it.
Doing is better than saying.
Saying "halva-halva" won't make your mouth sweet.
The world will not find rest by just saying "peace.”.
Optimism is a mania for saying all is well when one is in hell.
"t is not with saying, "Honey," "Honey," that sweetness will come into the mouth.
A good friend is someone who will bail you out of jail, but your best friend is the one sitting next to you saying "that was fucking awesome”.
Criticism is something you can avoid by saying nothing, doing nothing, and being nothing.
One half the troubles in this world can be traced to saying ‘yes' too quick or saying ‘no' not soon enough.
As the saying goes.
Saying and doing are two things.
Wait for the night before saying that the day has been beautiful.
Saying and doing are two things.
Saying is one thing, doing another.
You cannot say A without saying B.
If more people say you're wrong, don't insist saying you're right.
It is not with saying honey, Honey, that sweetness will come into the mouth.
Saying is one thing, and doing another.
Our elders quote the cock as saying that "it would not be good if one becomes the only person in the world, and that is why they crow every morning to show their number".
Saying well causes a laugh; doing well produces silence.
The wise man says what he knows; the fool doesn't know what he is saying.
Between saying and doing there is a long road.
Wait till it is night before saying it has been a fine day.
A proverb is a short, pithy saying that expresses a traditionally held truth or piece of advice, based on common sense or experience.
Doing is better than saying.
Saying and doing are two things.
It's not the fault of the pig, but of the one who scratches his back.
A foreigner scratches you where you do not itch.
The cat is a good friend, only she scratches.
The hen scratches and the chicken learns.
‘kanywanjui' scratches its thigh.
The son of the leopard scratches like its mother.
No partridge scratches the ground in search of food for another.
After a feast a man scratches his head.
The cat is friendly, but scratches.
Character is a diamond that scratches every other stone.
'Kanywanjui' scratches its thigh.
Every cock scratches around in his own garden.
Grief itches but scratching it makes it worse.
Biting and scratching is Scots folk's wooing.
Scratching and borrowing do well enough, but not for long.
I am scratching myself where I am itching.
What gives the child the itch has already given him the fingernails for scratching it.
For a rash to heal, you must stop scratching it.
There is no partridge which does not know its own way of scratching.
When the itch is inside the boot, scratching outside provides little consolation.
Too much scratching smarts, too much talking harms.
Whether eating or scratching, the main thing is to start.
Those who wrestle weasels will be scratching for fleas.
An open door may tempt a saint.
The saint is suspicious of too many sacrifices.
When the alms is too large, even a saint will be suspicious.
He is an old saint, any may leave it in the hands of God.
The saint has no believers unless he works miracles.
To every saint his torch.
You cannot worship an unknown saint.
Follow the saint no further than his doorstep.
A devil takes one and makes two, a saint takes two and makes one.
Neither promise wax to the saint, nor cakes to the child.
It's not worth undressing a saint to dress another one.
Don't undress a saint to dress the other.
Too much alms, the saint will be suspicious.
Pray to the saint until you have passed the slough.
Water by Saint John's takes oil and doesn't give bread.
The river passed the saint forgotten.
Every one praises his own saint.
Like saint like offering.
Don't believe in the saint unless he works miracles.
All saint without, all devil within.
The danger past, the saint cheated.
The weather worsens on saint bartholomew's day.
On Saint Candelora day, if it's snowing or raining, there'll be another forty days of winter.
The saint who works no cures has few pilgrims to his shrine.
There is no chapel so small but has its saint.
All do not beg for one saint.
An absent saint gets no candles.
Not so much that it burns the saint, nor so little that it doesn't illuminate him.
The cat is a saint when there are no mice about.
The absent saint gets no candle.
The greater the sinner, the greater the saint.
The father a saint the son a devil.
The father a saint the son a devil.
When a man is falling, every saint pushes him.
The hand of each saint inclines towards himself.
By Saint Candelora day if it's not snowing or raining, winter is over.
Let God handle it, He's a venerable saint.
If you leave the safe open even a saint will sin.
You recognize the saint by his miracle.
To every saint his candle.
The devil was sick, the Devil a saint would be; the Devil was well, the devil a saint was he.
Like saint like incense.
Saint cannot if God will not.
The saint's-day over, farewell the saint.
The father a saint, the son a sinner.
An open door tempts a saint.
All saint without, all devil within.
The more honesty a man has the less he affects the air of a saint.
Ask not a saint of his caste; ask of his knowledge.
It's not worth undressing a saint to dress another one.
Too much alms, the saint will be suspicious.
When you find your saint light your candle.
Young saint, old devil. (15th century)
The saint who works no miracles isn't glorified.
Like saint, like offering.
A saint that cannot cure anyone has few disciples.
Security is nowhere safe.
Security is the first cause of misfortune.
A good paymaster does not hesitate to give good security.
A good paymaster needs no security.
Advice to all, security for none.
Distrust and caution are the parents of security.
Danger is next neighbour to security.
Poverty with security is better than plenty in the midst of fear and uncertainty.
Advice to all, security for none.
The bigger the chance, the less the security.
To have security, plan ahead.
Trust not to God but upon good security.
Trust in God upon good security.
An industrious life is the best security for food in old age.
If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely.
If you've money, take a seat; it you've none, take to your feet.
One ticket, one seat.
Two men quarreling do not share the same seat on a canoe.
Give me a seat, and I will make myself room to lie down.
If you sit on a seat, and that seat is a comfortable seat, sit on that seat, and do not leave that seat.
A nickel will get you on the subway, but garlic will get you a seat.
A rickety chair will not long serve as a seat.
Though you seat the frog on a golden stool, he'll soon jump off again into the pool.
Seat yourself in your place, and they will not make you rise.
If fortune calls, offer him a seat.
Seat the pig at the table - she'll put [her] legs on the table.
Seat yourself in your place and you will not be made to quit it.
The highest seat will not hold more than one.
He that you seat upon your shoulder will often try to get upon your head.
No merriment in the seat of justice.
Not everyone who sits in the seat of honor is master.
Let me drink beer shandy and sit in the seat of honour!
He who has no job should search for a camel.
The one who shows off himself in every place will one day search for where to hide.
The fun is in the search, not the finding.
Search yourself, and you will find allah.
We do not use our bare feet to search for hidden thorns which we have seen in day time.
Search for a needle in the ocean.
If you search for a faultless woman, you will remain a bachelor.
To search for thorns in the milk.
If patience hides something, anger won't search and get.
They know not their own defects who search for the defects of others.
It's best to search while the trail is new.
Be on a horse when you go in search of a better one.
A hungry man will thrust his fingers into a snake's hole in search of a grasshopper.
Search for a friend with no faults and you will remain with no friends.
A mule who goes in search of a fine set of antlers, will come back with his ears cut off.
There are two kinds of men: those who could be happy and are not, and those who search for happiness and find it not.
On the first of march, the crows begin to search.
He is in search of a ram with five feet.
He need not search his pockets for words.
The best way to find happiness is not to search for it.
March'll search ye, April try ye May'll tell, whether live or die ye.
Search knowledge though it be in China.
Don't buy the salt if you haven't licked it yet.
The lucky eagle kills a mouse that has eaten salt.
Spilt salt is never well collected.
When the father has eaten too much salt in his lifetime, then his son thereafter will have a great thirst.
It is as difficult to win love as it is to pack salt in pine needles.
By bread and salt we are united.
A proverb is to speech what salt is to food.
He who shares my bread and salt is not my enemy.
If I peddle salt, it rains; if I peddle flour, the wind blows.
You can use salt to prevent meat from rotting, but what will you use to prevent salt from rotting?
Salt preserves meat, but what can be done with salt if it is bad.
It's as difficult to win love as to wrap salt in pine needles.
Give neither advice nor salt, until you are asked for it.
Kill no more than you can salt, or you will have tainted meat.
Without salt the feast is sad.
Others' bread is too salt.
The salt of patience seasons everything.
Many cooks put too much salt in the soup, food.
With fortune on your side you can sow salt and harvest grass.
To get to know people, you have to eat a full donkey's cargo of salt together.
Before you make a friend, eat a pack of salt with him.
Putting salt on every snail.
To know a man well one must have eaten a bushel of salt with him.
Let the salad-maker be a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a statesman for salt, and a madman for tossing.
Giving advice to a stupid man is like giving salt to a squirrel.
Salt will never be worm-eaten.
Salt comes from north, gold from south and silver from the land of Whites, but the Word of God, the famous things, histories and fairy tales, we only find them in Timbuktu.
Rebuke should have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
Give neither counsel or salt till you are asked for it.
Salt doesn't say it's salty.
He who asks for salt does so for his own cooking pot.
As a daughter grows up she is like smuggled salt.
A dry finger cannot pick up salt.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
An unpleasant guest is as welcome as salt to a sore eye.
Trust no one till you have eaten a bushel of salt with him.
Slaughter no more than you can well salt.
Salt and bread make the cheeks red.
Better not to add salt than over salt.
Help you to salt. help you to sorrow.
Three things are good in small doses and bad in big ones: yeast, salt, and hesitation.
Even on old goat likes to lick salt.
He became in idol of salt.
The cure for anything is salt water - sweat, tears, or the sea.
However much the world degenerates, man shall never find worms in salt.
Salt does not brag that it is salted.
Water, advice, and salt unasked for should not be given.
To recognize a real friend, you have to together have eaten three bushels of salt.
Salt comes from the sea and every bad thing comes from the woman.
Don't slaughter more pigs than you can salt.
Help you to salt, help you to sorrow.
Bread and salt never quarrel.
Salt split is never all gathered.
Trust no one, until you have eaten a peck of salt with him.
The fish requires salt.
It is well to buy oil as well as salt.
If one throws salt at you, you will not be harmed unless you have sore places.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
He who shares my bread and salt is not my enemy.
The four seasons are salt, pepper, mustard and vinegar.
Did the old salt make you thirsty already?
Rebukes ought not to have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
It is well to buy oil as well as salt. [Different remedies should be at hand when required.].
If a young man is not prudent in seeking what killed his father, what killed his father may also kill him.
Seeking fish? Don't dive in the pond; go home and get a net.
It costs you your good spirit to steal than buying or seeking.
Everyone is weary: the poor in seeking, the rich in keeping, the good in learning.
Enjoy your little while the fool is seeking for more.
Jealousy is a pain seeking its cause.
While seeking new friends, hold to the old.
A woman who hugs and squeezes you has deceived you or is seeking to deceive you.
The person seeking India's riches must have them within himself.
An empty sack doesn't stand up.
The son-in-law's sack is never full.
Bad is the sack that will not bear patching.
White flowers are not to be found in a coal sack.
A man's heart is not a sack open to all.
One lie can fill a sack; a second will empty it again.
Two cats will not live together in one sack.
At the bottom of the sack you will find the bill.
There comes nothing out of the sack but what was there.
Make yourself an ass, and you'll have every man's sack on your shoulders.
Words don't will the sack.
Three or four daily will bring you to the bottom of the sack.
Honor and profit will not keep in one sack.
A sack was never so full but that it would hold another grain.
A full sack pricks up its ear.
A ragged sack holds no grain, a poor man is not taken into counsel.
Every one goes with his own sack to the mill.
Nothing can come out of a sack but what is in it.
Don't buy a cat in a sack.
Many words don't fill the sack.
If he won't carry the sack, give him a whack.
A malicious man is like a coal sack -- black on the outside and even blacker inside.
Dignity and an empty sack is worth the sack.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
Ambition spills the sack.
Eggs and metal should not be put in the same sack.
A fu' sack will tak a clout o' the side.
An empty sack cannot stand.
An empty sack won't stand alone.
Promises fill no sack.
When a man is in a sack, he must get out at the mouth or at the bottom.
No man looks for another in a sack, unless he has been there him himself.
Fair words won't fill the sack.
Every man must go to the mill with his own sack.
Every man must carry his own sack to the mill.
It takes many words to fill a sack.
An empty sack will not stand upright.
When the sack is full, it pricks up its ears.
Entreat him in jackass fashion; if he won't carry the sack, give him a whack.
Make yourself an ass, and every one will lay his sack on you.
The last stole the sack.
We beat the sack and mean the miller.
An empty sack will not stand upright.
Where pig is proffered, go round with a sack.
The nail sticks out of the sack.
The sack has found its patch.
Ane may bind a sack before it be fou'.
An empty sack cannot stand up alone.
You can't make a rattle with a single walnut in a sack.
Uncollected olives, left at random fill neither the saddle bag nor the little sack.
Fair words won't fill the sack.
You never get clean flour from a coal sack.
If God sends you meal, the devil takes the sack.
Honor and money cannot go in the same sack.
Like a collier's sack, bad without and worse within.
Marriage is a sack full of ninety-nine snakes and one eel.
All that meal comes not from your own sack.
The one whom the piglet is offered must keep the sack ready.
[You] cannot hide an awl in a sack.
An empty sack won't stand alone.
Bind the sack before it is full.
He has command of the sack who is seated on it.
Let every man carry his own sack to the mill.
Don't buy a cat in a sack.
Let every man carry his own sack to the mill.
When the sack is full, it pricks up its ears.
Don't buy a cat in the sack.
Tell me where it itches if you want me to scratch you.
Only scratch where you can reach.
You cannot run and scratch your ass at the same time.
I only have my nails to scratch with and my feet to walk on.
Don't scratch your shoe when it's your foot that itches.
He hasn't time even to scratch his head.
Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
Scratch my back and I will scratch yours.
Flatterers are cats that lick before and scratch behind.
It is a bad hen that does not scratch herself.
Scratch an old woman's back and she will let you taste her pepper pot.
He who hunts after bargains will scratch his head.
They who are born of chickens scratch the earth.
To eat and to scratch one has but to begin.
It would make a man scratch where it doth not itch, To see a man live poor to die rich.
The itch that gives someone skill is difficult to scratch.
The secret of success is to start from scratch.
You scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
Unfortunate is the man who has no fingernails to scratch his head with.
He who feels himself scabby, let him scratch.
Flatters, like cats, lick and then scratch.
Scratch a Russian and you find a Tartar.
You may crush, bleed, stamp on and scratch me, but I won't play with fire.
If you play with a cat, you must not mind her scratch.
A quarrel is like an itch; the more you scratch, the more it itches.
Let him that itches scratch himself.
Scratch people where they itch.
Live and scratch - when you're dead the itching will stop.
One devil does not scratch out another devil's eyes.
Mules help to scratch each other.
He has not leisure even to scratch his ears.
The lion is known by the scratch of his claws.
A word out of season may mar a whole lifetime.
The lazy one is pregnant in the sowing season.
A man without reason is a beast in season.
Put no faith in a drunkard's prophecy, another man's dog, or the weather at any season.
However long the dry season takes a seasonal river will never forget where it used to pass.
The leopard that covers its black spots with hamaton dust solution will truly be exposed when the rain season comes.
To rebel in season is not to rebel.
Beauty does not season soup.
Everything is good in its season.
Everything in its season, and turnips in Advent.
There is a season for all things.
A house can't be built for the rainy season that is past.
Happiness is like a field you can harvest every season.
Summer is the season of inferior sledding.
Do me a favour during a rainy season and I shall do the same to you during the dry season.
During the dry season it is better to befriend the owner of the pirogue.
It takes a season for a snake to change into its new skin.
A bird doesn't forget one who killed off his feathers during the rain season.
He that has the spice, may season as he list.
Provision in season makes a rich house.
Weeds last the season.
A farmer does not boast that he has had a good harvest until his stock of yams lasts till the following harvest season.
He who has plenty of pepper may season his food as he likes.
Everything has its season.
To die in the season of plague brings no honor.
Everything in its season and the crow in August.
A good maxim is never out of season.
One does not become a master diviner in a day. A forest is not made in a season. The swoop of an eagle has seen many seasons and floods...
A good maxim is never out of season.
Season resembles not season.
Every seller praises his wares.
The seller has one eye, the buyer, one hundred.
For the buyer a hundred eyes are too few, for the seller one is enough.
The buyer has need of a hundred eyes, the seller of but one.
Every seller praises his wares.
The buyer has need of a hundred eyes. the seller but one.
Even the candle seller dies in the dark.
The melon seller does not announce, "Bitter melons." Distant water does not put out a nearby fire.
May both seller and buyer see the benefit.
Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk.
Buying and selling is but winning and losing.
Sleep after selling horses and elephants.
Don't go selling the hide while the bear remains in the hole.
If you buy things you don't need, you'll soon be selling things you do.
If you make a habit of buying things you do not need, you will soon be selling things you do.
Whoever buys useless things will soon be selling his necessities.
With selling and buying there are neither friends nor cronies.
Three things make a man rich: Earning and not spending, promising and not doing, buying and not selling.
You don't learn anything from buying, but you do from selling.
Running and buying don't go together -- running and selling do.
Don't plant a seed in the sea.
Birds are caught with seed, men with money.
Every seed knows its time.
One sesame seed won't make oil.
A tree starts with a seed.
They sowed the seed of an "if' but it didn't germinate.
All work is as seed sown; it grows and spreads, and sows itself anew.
Of evil grain no good seed can come.
The seed of all evil is laziness.
The seed waits for its garden or ground where it will be sown.
Good seed makes a good crop.
Early flowers give no seed.
Woman without man is like a field without seed.
Sorrow is the seed of wealth.
Pick up a sesame seed only to lose a watermelon.
They have sowed the seed of the word "tomorrow” and it has not germinated.
The leek resembles its seed and little Hassan takes after his father.
He that soweth good seed shall reap good corn.
It is from a small seed that the giant Iroko tree has its beginning.
You only fool yourself when you seed badly.
Whoever sows alongside the road, tires the oxen and wastes seed.
If you've seeded before a heavy rain, one out of one hundred of your plants will be out of line, but if you wait and seed later, one out of one hundred will take.
Seed well and harvest better.
Seed after a bad year.
Seed ground that has been fallow, not ground that has just yielded fruitfully.
Plow with the oxen and seed with the cows at their own pace.
It is the seed of the umya.
He who sows the seed of discord works in the devil's barn.
Parsley seed goes nine times to the Devil.
There will come a time when the seed will sprout.
For every seed a corresponding fruit.
If you eat all your harvest, you won't have seed for tomorrow.
They have sowed the seed of the word They have sowed the seed of the word "tomorrow" and it has not germinated.
A tree starts with a seed.
The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church.
For age and want save while you may, no morning sun lasts a whole day.
Save your fowl before it stops flapping.
I will not bite any dog,” says the shepherd's dog, "for I must save my teeth for the wolf.
Give nine, save ten.
Save money and money will save you.
There is a remedy for all things save death.
You can't kill a dog just to save a cat's tail.
A termite can do nothing to a stone save lick it.
If the tail of the dog can save me, I don't care about its stench.
There is no economy in going to bed early to save candles if the result is twins.
Literal meaning: Save your white penny for your black day.
He that does not save pennies, will never have pounds.
When a man is rich, he begins to save.
Spend not, where you may save; spare not, where you must spend.
A prophet is not without honor save in his own country.
Save us from our friends.
Save something for the man that rides on the white horse.
God save you from a bad neighbour, and from a beginner on the fiddle.
God save me from him who studies but one book.
God save me from one who does not drink.
Save a thief from the gallows and he'll be the first who shall cut your throat.
Save three pieces of gold and the fourth one will fall into your lap.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
Who falls in the water will hold on to the foam to save himself.
Dine with a stranger, but save your love for your family.
Save time!
Sometimes you need to sacrifice your beard in order to save your head.
May God save me from the one I saved.
Those who study will know, those who save will have.
A log can not move save by the help of rollers.
It is better to save your innocence at the cost of your honor, than to save your country at the cost of your life.
Killing a man to save the world, does not save the world.
Make your brain save your heels.
Don't drown yourself to save a drowning man.
Romeo must die in order to save the love.
If youth knew what age would crave, it would both get and save.
Why save when your son is a good son? why save when your son is a bad son?
God save us from the enriched poor and from the impoverished rich.
To save one man is like saving the world.
Save a thief from the gallows and he will help to hang you.
God save us from the end of March and the beginning of April.
The most important thing you have to do is to save your soul.
If your neighbor's house is afire, fetch water to save your own.
In youth we need to save for what old age will bring.
God save us from a mistaken summons and poorly informed justice.
God save you from narrow doorways, a caning, stones thrown at the blind and the weighing of shop keepers.
What you save is, later, like something found.
Long fasting doesn't save bread.
God save me from those I trust in.
God save you from a man who has but one business.
Save a thief from the gallows and he will cut your throat.
In a fight the rich man tries to save his face, the poor man his coat.
The lazy servant to save one step takes eight.
Possessions dwindle: I mourn their loss. But I mourn the loss of time much more, for anyone can save his purse, but none can win back lost time.
O, God, if there be a God, save my soul if I have a soulǃ (A soldier before the battle of Blenheim in 1704)
Destroying an Empire to win a war is no victory. And ending a battle to save an Empire is no defeat.
A wise man cannot save a decaying country as manure cannot save an eroding land.
Try to save the dead horse as if it is still alive.
Provide for the worst, the best will save itself.
Who by fleeing might save himself, may again come before the hatch.
Every tide has an ebb save the tide of graces.
All evils save death may be amended.
For age and want save while you may: no morning sun lasts a whole day.
Save us from our friends.
God save us from four people: doctors, notaries, pharmacists, and bad bosses.
When you look into the mouth of a corpse, you won't want to save money.
Give nine, save ten.
Without seeing the mountain, do not tuck up your skirt, without seeing the water, do not take off your boots.
Do not mend your neighbor's fence before seeing to your own.
A man's eyes are for seeing, a woman's for being seen.
Seeing is different from being told.
Calling the devil is not the same as seeing him come.
The fish, seeing the water has dried up, struggles mightily in the mud.
Abuses are the result of seeing one another too often.
By seeing one spot you know the entire leopard.
Seeing is poison for the eyes.
If you cry because the sun has gone out of your life, your tears will prevent you from seeing the stars.
Seeing the Kremlin stars - going forward braver.
Don't sign a paper without reading it, or drink water without seeing it.
Drink nothing with out seeing it; sign nothing without reading it.
Seeing is believing.
Let us see then tell; hearing is not seeing.
Hearing is not seeing.
A frog in a well-shaft seeing the sky.
The pure, upon seeing it pure, call it pure.
Seeing is different than being told.
Seeing is believing.
The eye is never satiated with seeing.
A blind person who sees is better than a seeing person who is blind.
Seeing is believing.
Seeing is better than hearing.
Travelling is seeing.
Don't cross yourself before seeing the Devil.
Do not say the first thing that comes to your mind.
Listen to what they say about others, and you will know what they say about you.
O, sheep if I do not eat you, you will eat me, said the hyena.
When you drink milk under the palm tree, people will say that it is palm wine.
A mother understands what a child does not say.
After all is said and done, more is said than done.
Somalis don't say a false proverb.
Know what you say, but don't say all that you know.
What you say when you're drunk should have been thought about beforehand.
That smells bad, said the cat about meat that it cannot reach.
The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree to the ground said he would praise himself if no one else did.
What is said over the dead lion's body, could not be said to him alive.
When throne into the sea the stone said, 'after all, this is also a home.'
If a dog bites you and you don't bite him back, it will say that you have no teeth.
We must blame the thief first before we say that where the owner put her property improper.
However little you think of the elephant, you can't say it won't fill a pot.
Tongue may muddle up and say the truth.
Because the cat was given no meat, he said it was Friday.
"like will to like,” as the devil said to the coal-burner.
Success to you! God speed the craft! as the hangman said to the judge.
"red is love's colour,” said the wooer to his foxy charmer.
"an egg is an egg,” said the beadle, but he took the goose-egg.
‘i see,' said the blind man when he was directed on his way.
Don't say everything you want to say lest you hear something you would not like to hear.
‘so near and yet so far,' said the man when the bird lit on his gun.
When all things spoke the potato said, ‘set me warm, dig me warm, eat me warm, that's all i want.'
‘My belly thinks my throat is cut,' as the hungry man said.
If everybody said bread and cheese, you put your head down and die.
If he says yogurt is white, I'll say it's black.
The baby is not yet born, and yet you say that his nose is like his grandfather's.
The sick man is free to say all.
Who can say with certainty that one will live to see the morrow?
Teach your tongue to say "I don't know” instead of to make up something.
The righteous say little and do much.
All is never said.
The real hero doesn't say that he is one.
People say that time goes by; time says that the people go by.
If one, two and three say you are an ass, put on the ears.
If the devil is going to take me,” said the courtesan, "let it be in a coach.
Blessings on him that said, Face about.
There is a great distance between said and done.
I believe what you say, i'm only surprised at what you do.
That which is said in your heart, let it be realized by springing up spontaneously.
Since we didn't say anything, he thought he could do whatever he wanted to.
It's easy to say "may allah roast the lion's mother,” when the lion isn't there.
A wise woman has much to say and yet remains silent.
To the dog who has money, men say: my lord dog.
If you see a man riding a wooden stick, say to him "Good health to your horse".
If you see him riding on a bamboo-cane, say to him, "Good health to your horse!"
He may say that he loves you, wait and see what he does for you.
When all men say you are a dog, it is time to bark.
He said, "my uncle is the horse.”.
A stammerer would eventually say father.
If you see something and say nothing, you will have nothing to suffer for.
If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work.
Say what you have to say, tomorrow.
He who is guilty has much to say.
When a man is coming toward you, you need not say, "Come here."
Mouth will not be sweet if you say halva.
God has said, "start moving so that I may start blessing.”.
As the dog said, ‘If I fall down for you and you fall down for me, it is playing.'
One can see it but must not say, when the master of a house passes excreta in a pot.
The words you say to tell the truth are as important as the decision to be truthful.
You cannot expect me to carry you on my back and then you say my head smells.
A man never becomes an orator if he has something to say.
I'd rather have them say "There he goes" than "Here he lies."
Least said sooner mended.
Better to say nothing, than to say something not to the purpose.
A man may say too much, even upon the best subjects.
Examine what is said, not him who speaks.
The smarter you get the fewer words you'd say.
Examine what is said, not who is speaking.
The garlic said to the onion: 'you stink.'
When asked, "What news from the sea?” The fish replied "I have a lot to say, but my mouth is full of water.”.
It is not for my own sake, said the fox, "that I say there is a good goose-green in the wood."
If `almost' did not exist, said the woman, "than I would have shot a hare."
It will come back, said the man, when he gave his sow pork.
I am a judge of cresses, said the peasant, as he was eating hemlock.
your words are fair,” said the wolf, "but I will not come into the village.
Be silent, or say something better than silence.
Every beginning is hard, said the thief, when he began by stealing an anvil.
He that says A, must also say B.
Thought when sober, said when drunk.
"great cry and little wool,” said the fool, when he sheared a pig.
‘what a dust we kick up,' as the fly said to the cart wheel.
A man who holds good cards would never say if they were dealt wrong.
She would drink the cream and say the cat she had was an old rogue.
Drunkenness and anger, 'tis said tell the truth.
It is no use waiting for your ship to come in unless you have sent one out.
A boy isn't sent to collect the honey.
If a child is not well-behaved, she is not sent by the mother to go alone to the market to buy things for her.
Who eats bread with barley porridge will be sent to siberia.
Gentility, sent to market, will not buy a peck of meal.
One sent by a woman does not fear death.
A man who was always complaining was quite rightly sent to hell.
God sent him meat, but the devil cooked it.
God wanted to chastise mankind, so he sent lawyers.
The sound of a church bell at times has more effect than a sermon.
Funeral sermon, lying sermon.
No church without a sermon.
A good life is the best sermon.
A good example is the best sermon.
Long sausage and short sermon are good.
Who preaches to the deaf, wastes the sermon.
There is no table without wine nor sermon without Augustine.
A good example is the best sermon.
The sermon will not be preached twice for one deaf's sake.
A dreigh drink is better than a dreigh sermon.
Breed up a serpent and he will strike when you are in deep slumber.
A woman has the form of an angel, the heart of a serpent, and the mind of an ass.
He who has been stung by a serpent is afraid of a lizard.
We keep an eye on the scorpion and the serpent, but we do not watch out for the millipede.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
If a man is as wise as a serpent, he can afford to be as harmless as a dove.
Unless a serpent devour a serpent it will not become a dragon. Unless one power absorb another, it will not become great.
Whom a serpent has bitten a lizard alarms.
It is easy to catch a serpent with someone else's hand.
He who digs too deep for a fish, may come out with a serpent.
He whom a serpent has bitten dreads a slow-worm.
More blind than the cast-off skin of a serpent.
A child's service is little, yet he is no little fool that despises it.
The worse service, the better luck.
Proffered service is little valued.
Proffered service stinks.
Service is greatness.
The brains of a fox will be of little service if you play with the paw of a lion.
Unwilling service earns no thanks.
My life and soul at your service, but not the pack-saddle.
Service is not inheritance.
Render the service paid for.
A raised salary has been earned by service.
The more servants the worse service.
No wind is of service to him that is bound for nowhere.
He who would thrive must follow the church, the sea, or the king's service.
According to the custom of Aragon, good service, bad guerdon.
Love is a kind of military service.
A service done to the unwilling is no service.
Being hospitable is more important than attending synagogue service early in the morning.
Where there is no rapport there is no sale. Enrolling people in your product or service is the same as enrolling them in you.
Proffer'd service stinks.
Being hospitable is more important than attending synagogue service early in the morning.
If you want good service, serve yourself.
Self is the man.
There is nothing noble in being superior to some other man. The true nobility is in being superior to your previous self.
Self Praise is no praise.
Self exaltation is the fool's paradise.
If they say you are good, ask you self if it be true.
First for self, then for the stranger.
Obeisance to the self that is a reflection of eternal reality.
Conqueror the self and you will conquer the opponent.
To know one's self is to know others, for heart can understand heart.
A rather sure way to be cheated is to think one's self more clever than other people.
Conceit is the self satisfaction of a jackass.
True nobility is in being superior to your previous self.
Help thy self, and God will help thee.
It is eith till, that the awn self will.
One must row in whichever boat one finds one's self.
An unrequested excuse is a self accusation.
Well-regulated charity begins with one's self.
Self praise is odious.
Self possessions are always undermined and other's possessions seem better.
Self is the best farmhand.
A mosquito is noticed in the eyes of another, but not an elephant in the eyes of ones own self.
There are two selves, the separate ego and the indivisible Atman. When one rises above I and me and mine, the Atman is revealed as one's real Self.
One's foul smelling does not sicken one self but merely disguts one.
A feeble effort will not fulfill the self.
A rather sure way to be cheated is to think one's self more clever than other people.
Self is a bad counsellor.
It is one's self knows best where the boot is pressing on the foot.
Self -- love is the worst of all flattery.
The best part of happiness lies is in the secret heart of a lover.
Don't tell your secret even to a fence.
The secret of an old woman scolding.
If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity.
A flatterer is a secret enemy.
Keep your secret in your own gourd.
Pregnancy and fire cannot be kept secret.
A secret between two is god's secret; a secret between three is known to all.
A secret for two, soon a secret for nobody.
The extreme form of passionate love is secret love.
Don't tell your important secret to your friend because your friend has his other friends as well.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
The secret of success is constancy of purpose.
A secret is like a dove: when it leaves my hand it takes wing.
The secret to success is to walk forward.
Your secret is your captive.
Keeping a secret is a commitment.
Give up the smallest part of a secret, and the rest is no longer in your power.
It is not a secret if it is known by three people.
Three people can keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
Where you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.
Tell your friends a lie; if he keeps it secret tell him the truth.
Tell your secret to your friend and he will set his foot on your neck.
A secret imparted is no longer a secret.
To whom you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.
Three may keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
Crimes may be secret, yet not secure.
Part with your head, but not with your secret.
Secret fire is discovered by its smoke.
There is nothing so secret but it transpires.
Nothing is such a heavy burden as a secret is.
The sober man's secret is the drunkard's speech.
Don't tell your secret to your friend; he will tell it to his friend.
The secret of patience is doing something else in the meantime.
The secret of two no further will go; the secret of three a hundred will know.
Love, grief, and money cannot be kept secret.
Don't let anyone know about your silent [secret] money.
Sharing a secret with a rogue is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
When the nile knows a secret the desert will soon know it too.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying a grain in a bag with a hole in it.
Wish thy friend joy of his journey, but pray in secret that he have no joy, for then may he return quickly to thee.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
Open rebuke is better than secret love.
The carrier of a secret message is not told its meaning.
Never do anything that you want to remain a secret.
Alms given openly will be rewarded in secret.
The secret of success is to start from scratch.
Alcohol will preserve anything but a secret.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
So long as I can keep a secret it is my prisoner.
Secret gifts are openly rewarded.
A woman keeps secret only what she does not know.
It's no secret that's know to three.
He who revealeth his secret maketh himself a slave.
To sin in secret is more pleasant than having pleasure in the open.
Conceal not your secret from your friend, or you deserve to lose him.
Tell your friend your secret, and he will set his foot on your neck.
He who tells his own affairs will hardly keep secret those of others.
Do not speak of secret matters in a field that is full of little hills.
A secret foe gives a sudden blow.
A secret is too little for one, enough for two, too much for three.
Never trust your friend with a secret unless he is mute or a dog.
People who have not secret agreement are beaten by a single club.
A secret agreement enabled people to kill watatua.
Women can keep only one secret - their own.
No blessing is bestowed on a secret.
The only way to keep a secret is to say nothing.
Nothing is so burdensome as a secret.
The secret of two is God's secret, the secret of three is everybody's secret.
Love, pain, and money cannot be kept secret; they soon betray themselves.
He who keeps his own secret avoids much mischief.
You surrender your freedom where you deposit your secret.
Tell your friend a lie -- and if he keeps it a secret, tell him the truth.
A secret between two is God's secret, a secret between three is everybody's.
If you wish another to keep your secret, first keep it yourself.
Mad drunkenness discloses every secret.
There is no remedy against the bite of a secret slanderer.
One secret of success is to know how to deny yourself and other people.
Self trust is the first secret of success.
What you want to keep a secret, tell no one.
Every man has a secret corner of his mind that nobody will ever know.
True sages are those who give what they have, without meanness and without secret.
A secret remains a secret only when one person knows it.
If you tell your secret to your friend, you will make him your master.
If there are no nightingales one must settle for owls.
You should not call in a cat to settle the argument of two birds.
A pound's worth of tears will not settle a penny's worth of debt.
Peace won't settle where a woman rules.
If you do not have sandals, find some, if you do not have gun powder, find some for a score to settle with you on the battle grounds.
If you reach for the highest of ideals, you shouldn't settle for less than the stars.
Don't settle in a place where the doctor has gout.
Being on sea, sail; being on land, settle.
Possessions are flying birds -- they never find a place to settle.
Don't settle in a place where the doctor has gout.
Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour.
Get thy spindle and thy distaff ready, and God will send flax.
Though God is almighty, he doesn't send rain from a clear sky.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return.
If God should listen to rooks, he should send a plague to horses.
Send a man of sense on the embassy, and you need not instruct him.
If you have a friend who is a physician, send him to your enemy's house.
If you have a friend who is a doctor, then send him to your enemy's house.
He would be a good one to send for death.
Send a child to do your errands, go do them yourself afterwards.
If you teach a hutu in flinging a spear he will definitely send it into your stomach.
If you have a loitering servant, set his dinner before him and send him on an errand.
If you have a friend who is a doctor, make your bow and send him to the house of your enemy.
Don't send away your cat for being a thief.
Fresh port and new wine, send a Christian to the churchyard.
Better go than send.
Send charcoal in a snow storm.
Send a boy where he wants to go and you see his best pace.
Let every day provide for itself and God send Sunday.
If you want a thing done, go. If not, send. The shortest answer is doing.
Don't send an old man to buy a donkey, nor a young man to woo a wife.
If you want to take revenge on a man, send him a really beautiful woman.
Where devil cannot go, he will send a woman.
If you want something, go yourself, if not, send somebody else.
Ilk a man as he loves, let him send to the Cooks.
Send, and fetch.
The gods may still send a gentle breeze when they want to bless us.
Send a fool to the market and a fool he will return.
One should not send a cat to deliver cream.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the Angel of Death.
Send a fool to close the shutters and he'll close them all over town.
Never send a boy to do a man's job.
The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth.
He'd skin a louse, and send the hide and fat to market.
If you give evil, you will receive evil. What negativity you send out will return to you.
If you send no one to the market, the market will send no one to you.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return.
Never send a boy to do a man's job.
If you wish a thing done, go; if not, send.
The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth.
u people i can not find mush proverbs about hands why if u have added i pls send a mail.
A childless old lady is obsessed with sea shells.
Carrying water to the sea.
Familiarity is like the sea that kills the fisherman.
When throne into the sea the stone said, 'after all, this is also a home.'
Don't plant a seed in the sea.
A smooth sea never made a skillful mariner.
There is hope from the sea but there is no hope from the land.
A drop of wisdom is better than a sea of gold.
Drop after drop, there will be a sea.
There is a deep sea between saying and doing.
You can't complain about the sea if you suffer shipwreck for the second time.
The sea becomes the shore, the shore becomes the sea.
The crow flew over the sea but returned still a crow.
Envy sees the sea but not the rocks.
Who wasn't [out] in the sea, didn't pray to God.
Do good and throw it into the sea - if it is not appreciated by an ungrateful man, it will be appreciated by God.
When the sea turned to honey, the poor man lost his spoon.
Where there is sea there will always be pirates.
Strike a match above the sea of opinions and the fish all swim away.
Do good and throw it in the sea.
He who does not go to sea knows not how to pray.
Shark is the famous one in sea the but they many others.
The existence of the sea means the existence of pirates.
The deep sea can be fathomed, but who knows the hearts of men?
A little water is a sea to an ant.
There is better fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
It is hard to sail over the sea in an egg-shell.
When asked, "What news from the sea?” The fish replied "I have a lot to say, but my mouth is full of water.”.
In a calm sea, every man is a pilot.
No one can complain of the sea who twice suffers shipwreck.
There are as many good fish in the sea as ever came out of it.
There are fish in the sea better than have ever been caught.
No forcing the sea.
When the sea turned into honey, the beggar lost his spoon.
The Sea has decided to drown itself in the river.
If you cannot catch a fish, do not blame the sea.
He who goes out to sea loses his place.
I saw a man, who saw another man, who saw the sea.
All the water in the sea doesn't even reach the knees of the man who fears not death.
Follow the river and you will get to the sea.
Love begins with song and music and ends in a sea of tears.
All water runs to the sea.
Even the sea. great as it is, grows calm.
Go to the sea if you would fish well.
All rivers do their best for the sea.
He who wants pearls has to dive into the sea.
With money you can build a road in the sea.
Every source flows to the sea.
Water ends up at the sea.
The sea embraces streams.
If the sea were made of wine, how many drunkards there would be.
The fish was so fresh that it was being cooked while its tail was still in the sea.
The prudent embark when the sea is calm - the rash when it's stormy.
Better on the heath with an old cart that at sea in a new ship.
A wreck on shore is a beacon at sea.
Better poor on land that rich at sea.
The sea has an enormous thirst and an insatiable appetite.
For a drunk, the sea is knee-deep (, and a puddle ear-deep).
A sea will not dry up, a nation will not get lost.
Every peasant is proud of the pond in his village because from it he measures the sea.
Giving gifts to the rich is like pouring water into the sea.
The river's reputation ends where the sea begins.
Where the sea goes let the sands go.
When once at sea, do not long to be on shore.
It is the still and silent sea that drowns a man.
Never fear the sea, fear the storm.
The sea aint got no backdoor; I can swim like lead.
The sea breeze blows the pelican where he wants to go.
One cannot scoop up the ocean with a sea shell.
It belongs neither to the sea nor to the mountain.
If rain bothers you, you can always jump into the sea.
Eight Immortals cross the sea, each employing his or her theurgy.
Give it to the Yangtze that rambles east to the sea.
A mountain of knives and a sea of fire.
The heart is but the beach beside the sea that is the world.
A rock in the middle of the sea is never afraid of the rain.
However hot the sun, it will never dry the sea.
Even if you remain an island you must still be friendly to the sea.
There are other fish in the sea.
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.
Youths are like waves of the sea, the elderly have strength instead of tide.
Throw a lucky man into the sea, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth.
Money can build roads in the sea.
Do good and throw it in sea.
He that is once at sea, must either sail or sink.
A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair.
More are drowned in the bowl than in the sea.
Praise the sea but keep near land.
Habit is a second nature.
The first day a guest, the second day a guest, the third day a calamity.
The second thought is always the best.
You can't complain about the sea if you suffer shipwreck for the second time.
The first [cup of vodka] goes as a stake, the second as a falcon, and the third as a little bird.
Life is short; but it barely takes a second to smile.
Don't take a second mouthful before you have swallowed the first.
One lie can fill a sack; a second will empty it again.
Let the first urge pass, wait for the second.
At the first cup man drinks wine, at the second wine drinks wine, at the third wine drinks man.
The first half of the night, think of your own faults; the second half, the faults of others.
Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional.
You can't steal second base with your foot on first.
The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
A good name is a second inheritance.
He who heeds the first word of his wife must listen forever to the second.
Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise.
The first sin makes the bed for the second.
A second marriage is like a warmed-up meal.
Habit becomes second nature.
Who has lied once will not be believed the second time.
Money isn't everything, but it's way ahead of whatever is in second place.
The first half of life is spent in longing for the second, the second half in regretting the first.
If you are choosing between bad company and loneliness, choose the second option.
The first mistake are theirs who commit them, the second are theirs that permit them.
The first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy.
If you have only two pennies left in the world, with the first penny, you should buy rice to feed your family. With the second penny, say the wise Japanese, you should buy a lily. The Japanese understand the importance of dreaming...
With the first glass a man drinks wine, with the second glass the wine drinks the wine, with the third glass the wine drinks the man.
The second word makes the fray.
When you have read a book for the first time, you get to know a friend; read it for a second time and you meet an old friend.
The first favor is a favor, the second an obligation.
Take a second look. It costs you nothing.
A second wife cannot celebrate the beating of the first wife because that same beating awaits her when the third wife arrives.
No chicken will fall into the fire a second time.
The early bird may catch the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
You can't take a second drink unless you have taken a first.
Second thoughts are the best.
Boldness in business is the first, second and third thing.
The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them.
Dawn does not come to awaken a man a second time.
The first will get the credit, even if the second is better.
The weapon first, fighting second.
Drive not a second nail till the first be clinched.
He that refuseth praise the first time does it because he would have it the second.
He ought not to complain of the sea who returns to it a second time.
Second thoughts are best.
By the first glass a lamb, the second a lion, and the third a pig.
Better be first in a village than second at Rome.
Custom is a second nature.
zzzzOne person enjoys a piece of hard cheese, a second a spun out prayer chant, and a third a door to the street.
Those who shine in the second rank, are eclipsed by the first.
Better the second husband of a widow than the first.
Take a woman's first advice and not her second.
The first step binds one to the second.
The first drink makes you a frisky gazelle, the second an impetuous zebra, the third a roaring lion, and with the fourth you become a silly donkey.
The wind changes every day; a woman changes every second.
The first drink with water, the second without water, the third like water.
The first wife is a broom, and the second a lady.
A wife is frightened of her first husband and a husband is frightened of his second wife.
The first marriage is a plate of honey, the second a glass of wine, and the third is a cup of poison.
Boldness in business is the first, second, and third thing.
I've decided that I won't marry this young the second time, said Vaalsteeni.
You may drink one drink, but the second is from Satan.
One cup (of liquor) is for health, second one is for fun, third one is for nothing.
The first sin makes the bed for the second.
By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.
The first time, forgive; the second time, hang.
The best time to plan a tree is 20 years ago. The second best time is now.
He who is shipwrecked the second time cannot lay the blame on Neptune.
In the end, a man's motives are second to his accomplishments.
It needs more skill than I can tell to play the second fiddle well.
A second woman has golden thighs.
The vine brings forth three grapes: the first of pleasure, the second of drunkenness, the third of sorrow.
Second thoughts are best.
If you want apples, you have to shake the trees.
You shake a man's hand, you don't shake his heart.
If you shake a dog, you shake his owner.
The tail can't shake the dog.
When it blows, the trees shake.
Beginning and ending shake hands.
Law is costly; shake hands and be friends.
You can't shake hands with a clenched fist.
A great leap gives a great shake.
Shake hands at the beginning and at the end.
A quarrel is like buttermilk: once it's out of the churn, the more you shake it, the more sour it grows.
Every wind does not shake down the nut.
Don't shake the tree when the pears fall off themselves.
You shake man' hand: you no shake him heart.
When one tries to shake a big tree, he ends up shaking himself.
If you want to drown yourself, don't torture yourself with shallow water.
A child without a mother is like a fish in shallow water.
Pleasures are shallow, sorrows deep.
In shallow waters, shrimps make fools of dragons.
In shallow holes moles make fools of dragons.
Deep rivers move with silent majesty, shallow brooks are noisy.
If you wish to drown, do not torture yourself with shallow water.
The river is crossed where it is shallow.
People with much ado usually don't know shallow.
If it's drowning you're after, don't torment yourself with shallow water.
Shallow waters make maist din.
Believe not that the stream is shallow because its surface is smooth.
He who throws away money with his hands will seek it with his feet.
People seek out big shots as flies seek out the elephant's tail.
A person does not seek luck; luck seeks the person.
Evil falls on him who goes to seek it.
Seek wisdom like a begger.
If you have, give; if you need, seek.
If you have, give; if you lack, seek.
Men seek less to be instructed than applauded.
Seek not to be consoled but to console.
Take heed you find not what you do not seek.
A dimple in the chin, your living comes in; a dimple in the cheek, your living to seek.
Seek and ye shall find.
Never seek the wind in the field. It is useless to try and find what is gone.
Seek and you shall find.
A woman's answer is never to seek.
The rich never have to seek out their relatives.
Sometimes the rain might force a man more than once to seek shelter under the same tree.
Seek advice but use your own common sense.
Many seek good nights and waste good days.
If you want to know secrets, seek for them in trouble or in pleasure.
If you would be respected in company, seek the society of your equals and not of your superiors.
To seek without finding, equals waste of time.
Much pressed is he who fain on the hearth would seek for warmth and weal.
Seek not ever to draw to thyself in love-whispering another's wife.
Do not seek the truth, only cease to cherish your opinions.
During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds.
Seek strength, not to be greater than my brother, but to fight my greatest enemy - myself.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
Those who seek revenge must remember to dig two graves.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
Only fools seek credit from the achievements of their ancestors.
Seek fish on a tree.
It is foolish for someone to seek credit for his ancestor's achievements.
Beware of the camel going to seek horns, he lost his ears.
During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds.
It is when one holds the sacrificial lamb that he begins to seek the gods.
Don't seek to hurt any man, but if any man seeks to hurt you may he break his neck.
Better keep now than seek anon.
Seek that which may be found.
He that buyeth magistracy will seek justice.
Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave.
Seek education even if it takes you to China.
He who would seek revenge must be on his own guard.
As fortune is sought, so it is found.
If you throw money away with your hands, you will seek it later with your feet.
You are like the man that sought his mare, and he riding on her.
The camel going to seek horns, lost his ears.
Who wants to have something good, will have to seek it where it is.
Ye seek hot water under cold ice.
Ye seek grace at a gracelesse face.
Some birds avoid the water, ducks seek it.
To seek a woman to the belly.
What is lost in the fire must be sought in the ashes.
A lizard on a cushion will still seek leaves.
Seek the brave in prison and the stupid among the clergy.
Having a good wife and rich cabbage soup, seek not other things.
Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond.
A man does not seek his luck, luck seeks its man.
Where you lost your cloak, seek it.
No need to seek shelter for an old ox.
You seek wool from a donkey!
Seek not the rose which is once lost.
Seek a wife in your own sphere.
Seek not the luxuries of life lest you reap sorrow.
We lose the certain things, while we seek the uncertain ones.
It is a strange desire to seek power and to lose liberty. (Francis Bacon)
Before thirty, men seek disease after thirty, disease seeks men.
Seek and ye shall find.
When your neighbor got the itches you too must seek the remedy.
Seek counsel of him who makes you weep, and not of him who makes you laugh.
Seek to get.
Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave.
Seek and ye shall find.
He who is wasting away with trouble must seek remedy.
Having achieved your purpose, seek not to undo what has been done.
A man with a sense of humor is never at a loss for words or action.
There is no fool who has not his own kind of sense.
Age does not give sense it only makes one go slowly.
Age does not give you good sense, it only makes you go slowly.
There are forty kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense.
There are 40 kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense.
Common sense ain't common.
Habit is the sixth sense that dominates the other five.
Nothing looks more like a man of sense than a fool who holds his tongue.
Good sense is as important as food.
A little of anything isn't worth a pin; but a wee bit of sense is worth a lot.
It is not the most beautiful woman who has the most sense.
Sense doesn't come before age.
Give a hint to the man of sense, and consider the thing done.
Send a man of sense on the embassy, and you need not instruct him.
The man of sense does not hang up his knowledge.
Women have got long hair and short sense.
Seek advice but use your own common sense.
He who does not have common sense at age thirty will never have it.
Evah fool got ‘e sense.
Common sense is essential.
There are three friends in this world: courage, sense, and insight.
Common sense is very uncommon with a lot of people.
To laugh at a man with sense is the privilege of fools.
A sense of humor is the pole that adds balance to our steps as we walk the tightrope of life.
It makes no sense to try to forge the iron whilst it is still cold.
Poverty is the sixth sense.
When the drink is in, the sense is out.
You didn't turn up when sense was being distributed.
One pound of learning could require an army of common sense to apply it .
If the wine comes in, good sense goes out.
What de good a education if him got no sense?
Who has never had good sense, and by age thirty still doesn't, certainly will never have it after that.
The white head often lacks good sense.
Hope may give a man strength, but not sense.
Money buys everything but good sense.
In proportion as anger comes, sense departs.
Sense comes with age.
Women and wine rid a man of his common sense.
A man of good natural plain common sense.
Where wine enters sense leaves.
Wife's sense is short and broad.
What reveals itself to me ceases to be mysterious for me alone if I unveil it to anyone else, he hears mere words which betray the living sense Profanation, but never revelation.
A fool may have no sense but he has legs.
Money speaks sense in a language all nations understand. (Aphra Behn)
A deluge of words and a drop of sense.
A proverb is a short, pithy saying that expresses a traditionally held truth or piece of advice, based on common sense or experience.
The lake is not encumbered by the swan, and the body is not encumbered by good sense.
One pound of learning might have required many thousand persons of common sense to acquire it.
Good sense is of greater value than wealth.
No hi ha gloria sense enveja.
The man has neither sense nor reason who leaves a young wife at home.
A good servant makes a good master.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years; the slave of a woman dies in six months.
When money is not a servant it is a master.
Money is the best servant.
Master and servant - both have the same body odor.
Better a wise man's servant than an idiot's master.
Money is a good servant but a had master.
Money is a good servant, but an evil master.
The heart of a servant that is not beaten is full of curses.
The master of the people is their servant.
Fire is a good servant but a poor master.
A new servant can catch a running deer.
The Spaniard is a bad servant but a worse master.
Literal meaning: The people's lord is their servant.
Fire is a good servant but a bad master.
The lazy servant takes eight steps to avoid one.
He who makes himself a servant is expected to remain a servant.
If the master gets drunk it is an honorable drunkenness; if the servant does it is evidence of his mean disposition.
The boss said to the servant, when there isn't what you want, eat what there is.
Do not stuff your servant with bread, and he won't ask for cheese.
If you have a loitering servant, set his dinner before him and send him on an errand.
If you don't pay a servant his wages, then he will pay himself.
The land is a chief, and a person is its lowly servant.
The borrower is servant to the lender.
If money be not thy servant, it will be thy master.
To have beautiful servant girls is a threat to good marriages.
He who is hungry is never a good civil servant.
Fire is a good servant but a bad master.
Where might is the master, justice is the servant.
The salary of a good servant is never too high.
If the servant grows rich and the master poor, they are both good for nothing.
It is bad to have a servant, but worse to have a master.
Where there are many masters the servant becomes mad.
Do it yourself sir, if you have not servant.
The master is the one who turns the servant into a thief.
A lazy thief is better than a lazy servant.
Give a servant a proper meal and the cow will give more milk and the cat will drink less.
As the master sleeps, the servant dreams.
An ill servant ne'er prov'd a good master.
Fire is a good servant but a bad master.
The servant of the devil does more than is asked for.
The most difficult master is the servant who became master.
If the lady of the house breaks something it is an unfortunate accident; if the servant does, then it is a terrible disaster.
The lazy servant to save one step takes eight.
The servant wench that has a mother in town swoons seven times a day.
Neither beg of him who has been a beggar, nor serve him who has been a servant.
By what servant is his master better loved than by his dog?
Let no man be the servant of another, who can be his own master.
A servant serves two kings, he is true to one.
Money is a good servant, but a bad master.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years.
Till age six, your son is your master; until ten he's your servant; until sixteen, a wonderful adviser; from then on, he's either your friend or your enemy.
Where the sun shines, there is also shade.
Old men sit in the shade because they planted a tree many years before.
Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade.
Large trees give more shade than fruit.
A tree that grows in the shade of another one will die small.
Two bulls do not live in the same shade.
The most beautiful flowers flourish in the shade.
A palm tree growing in the shade will not bear ripe fruit.
There is not enough room for two elephants to sit in the same shade.
The tree casts its shade upon all, even upon the woodcutter.
You must chop down the tree that gives too much or too little shade.
Where there is sunshine, there is also shade.
A tree of your height cannot shade you.
He who earns his living in the sun, eats in the shade.
When the heat has passed, you forget about the shade of trees.
The shade of the same tree, the flowing of the same stream.
He who sits in the shade won't take an axe to the tree.
If you make love in the shade you get cold.
The one who plants the tree is not the one who will enjoy its shade.
One generation plants the trees; another gets the shade.
A snake can shade its skin but it still remains a snake.
The tree that is not taller than you cannot shade you.
He who leans against a big tree will always find shade.
Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade.
You are like a tree, giving your shade to the outside.
What's the good of a sun-dial in the shade?
Great trees give more shade than fruit.
Fruit ripens not well in the shade.
Who leans against a good tree, gets a good shade.
What is the good of a sundial in the shade?
Hey sloth, don't go into the shade, the shade would eventually come to you.
If a tree afford you shade, don't cut it down. When the tree falls, the shade is gone.
He who gets close to a good tree, will have a good shade.
A razor may be sharper than an ax, but it cannot cut wood.
A false friend's tongue is sharper than a knife.
Money is sharper than a sword.
One eye in the corner is sharper than two about the house.
There is nothing sharper than a woman's tongue.
The bigger the smile, the sharper the knife.
The dearer the child, the sharper must be the rod.
The sharper soon cheats the covetous man.
Money is sharper than the sword. Ashanti tribe.
Money is sharper than a sword.
One who prevades the great universe is seen by none unless a man knows the unfolding of love.
Who has ever seen tomorrow?
Let him speak who has seen with his eyes.
When you've heard it you must see it; when you've seen it make a judgement with your heart.
If he hasn't seen her/his father, he would claim to be a king.
I've seen your top, i've seen your bottom also.
The loveliest of faces are to be seen by moonlight, when one sees half with the eye and half with the fancy.
No one has seen to-morrow.
Children should be seen and not heard.
In sunshine the dust is seen.
One cannot ski so softly that the tracks cannot be seen.
Whatever is written on the forehead is always seen.
Not everything can be seen, but everything exists.
The daughter-in-law wipes away what the mother-in-law has seen.
A strong bull is seen by it's scars.
The eye never forgets what the heart has seen.
I have never seen anyone go astray who followed along the right way.
Those far, far away are seldom seen for what they really are.
He who stands high is seen from afar.
Where there's no love, all faults are seen.
If I am seen, I am joking; if I am not seen, I steal.
Many a defect is seen in the poor man.
love and faith are seen in their works.
Let not the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.
Seldom seen soon forgotten.
What worth has beauty if it is not seen?
Don't undo your bootlaces until you have seen the river.
We have seen a hare, we shall have no luck.
We do not use our bare feet to search for hidden thorns which we have seen in day time.
When a face is sullen it remains there to be seen on its owner.
If everyone's misfortunes were seen by all in broad daylight, in the end people would take back their own.
He has seen the wolf.
A thing too much seen is little prized.
Where's no top dogs, underdogs will be seen as one.
There is more light than can be seen through the window.
As you see yourself, I once saw myself; as you see me now, you will be seen.
The venemous snake cannot be seen in the savannah.
One who refused advice was later seen bleeding.
What is seen is seen by all.
Nobody can see his own goodness: it can be seen only by others.
Virtue practiced to be seen is not real virtue; vice which fears to be seen is real vice.
You've seen many Komo, but you haven't seen the wild beast.
When you see a palm tree, the palm tree has seen you.
The dead are not seen in the company of the living.
We have never seen the earth show her teeth.
What the eye has seen, the heart never forgets.
The venemous snake cannot be seen in the Savannah.
A fool's name is seen in many places.
Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed.
Obedience is much more seen in little things than in great.
Let my lamp at midnight hour be seen in some high lonely tower.
If you have never seen evil, look closely at yourself some time.
A wound never heals so well that the scar cannot be seen.
That is not in the looking-glass which is seen in the looking-glass.
When the thief is seen [stealing], he says he is joking; but when the thief is not seen, he steals.
As you see yourself, I once saw myself; as you see me now, you will be seen.
Love and faith are seen in works.
Never let the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.
Stars are not seen where the sun shines.
He who has not seen seville has not seen a wonder.
The moon is not seen where the sun shines.
I have seen as light a green.
Ten tongues that spread the word are worth less than two eyes that have seen, and two eyes that have seen are worth less than one hand that feels.
Who has travelled a lot has seen a lot.
A house that is not seen by the sun, is visited often by the doctor.
When it's seen, there's no need for proof.
Daughters may be seen but not heard.
A dog with a docked tail is not afraid that its backside can be seen.
Who has seen death will be content with illness.
I know nothing about it, I haven't seen it; that is the best answer.
Stars are not seen by sunshine.
The evil is lessened when it is seen beforehand.
Go to Jericho.
Let them all go to Jericho,
And ne'er be seen againe.
Good day, bean! Have you seen another somewhere?
You don't know a human 'till you've seen her/him eating, when he believes that no one sees.
The lion is a beautiful animal, when seen at a distance.
He who hasn't seen mountains and castles is amazed by the sight of an oven.
A fool's name is seen in many places.
Ye may be heard where ye're no seen.
When love cools fauts are seen.
Had the monkey seen its ass, it wouldn't have danced.
If you had been calm, you wouldn't have seen a miracle.
When love cools fauts are seen.
One does not become a master diviner in a day. A forest is not made in a season. The swoop of an eagle has seen many seasons and floods...
The hidden things of wisdom and a treasure that is not seen, what profit is in them both?
"Who is silent is seen to agree, when he ought to and might have spoken.”.
You cannot shave a man's head in his absence.
Why should I shave when God doesn't?
There is no beard so well shaven but another barber will find something more to shave from it.
Even a monk can't shave his own head.
A barber learns to shave by shaving fools.
Too many barbers would be ready to shave the beard of a beardless man.
A beard once washed is half shaven.
It needs a cunning hand to shave a fool's head.
It is easier to bear a child once a year than to shave every day.
A barber does not shave himself.
The barber learns to shave on the orphan's face.
On a fool's beard all learn to shave.
On a fool's beard the barber learns to shave.
He wants to learn how to shave using my beard.
Happy the house in which there is no shaven crown.
You can shear a sheep many times but you can skin him only once.
You can shear a sheep many times but you can skin him only once.
You cannot shear the sheep closer than the skin.
After shaving there is nothing to shear.
After shaving there is nothing to shear.
Shear the sheep but don't flay them.
After shaving there is nothing to shear.
Shear the sheep but don't flay them.
Would you shear a donkey for wool!
Sow thin, shear thin. (Strauss, 1998 p. 1158)
One doesn't shear naked sheep.
Love truth even if it harms you, and hate lies even if they serve you.
If you cannot serve, you cannot rule.
If you want to be served, serve yourself.
The thousand brilliant accomplishments of the past cannot serve today's purpose.
No man can serve two masters.
The strong will protect the weak and, in return, the weak will serve the strong.
Would you have me serve you, good king, give me the means of living.
Serve a lord, and you will know what it is to be vexed.
To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of.
Willows are weak, yet serve to bind bigger wood.
One cannot serve two masters.
You cannot serve God and the devil.
He who serves the Tsar cannot serve his people.
Better rule in hell, than serve in heaven.
God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn.
To serve our elders is a duty, our equals it is polite, but serving the young is humiliating.
Look at the man you serve and you will see how much you are esteemed.
He who does not know how to serve cannot know how to command.
To serve a mean person, is to beat the earth.
Wives serve, brothers inherit.
No man can serve two masters.
If thy strength will serve, go forward in the ranks; if not, stand still.
Serve your neighbors as you would be served yourself.
To serve a prince is like sleeping with a tiger.
If you ignore your own relatives you will serve the outsiders.
Don't question a blind man for buying a mirror, it must serve him some purpose.
Any excuse will serve a tyrant.
If a man believes in a stone, that stone will serve him well.
A rickety chair will not long serve as a seat.
You cannot serve God and mammon.
He who would serve everybody gets thanks from nobody.
God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn.
Priests, cousins and pigeons. The first two are not good to marry. The Last two, serve only to filth the house.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Serve the Lord and you'll see what pain is.
When you want to serve your friend, you can't worry about your belongings.
What good serve candle and glasses, if the owl does not want to see.
Riches serve a wise man, but command a fool.
Serve as a serf or fly like a deer.
You can't serve God and Mammon.
Serve a lord and you'll know what is grief.
If you wish to be well served, serve yourself.
Neither serve one who has been a servant, nor beg of one who has been a beggar.
He who has two masters to serve must lie to one of them.
Neither beg of him who has been a beggar, nor serve him who has been a servant.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Nobody can serve two masters.
All riches are multiplied by the simple process of sharing them where they may serve others.
No man can serve two masters.
Riches serve a wise man but command a fool.
Nobody can serve two masters.
We are here to serve.
If you want good service, serve yourself.
What you don't see with your eyes, don't witness with your mouth.
He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good.
If anyone is not willing to accept your point of view, try to see his point of view.
He who envies does not see.
Eyes that see do not grow old.
It's better to see once than hear a hundred times.
What you see is what you believe.
If men could see the epitaphs their friends write they would believe they had gotten into the wrong grave.
A blind man sat behind a pile of stones and thought that nobody could see him.
When you've heard it you must see it; when you've seen it make a judgement with your heart.
Distracted by what is far away, he does not see his nose.
He can see a louse as far away as china but is not aware of an elephant on his nose.
A deaf man may not have heard the thunder but he surely will see the rain.
When you talk about the sun, you will see her beams.
Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old.
A light is still a light -- even though the blind man cannot see it.
He can't see the beam in his own, but he's looking for an eyelash in someone else's.
‘i see,' said the blind man when he was directed on his way.
He doesn't see water, otherwise he is a skilled swimmer.
What the eyes don't see the heart doesn't feel.
Two eyes see better than only one.
He who lives shall see.
The eyes do not see what the mind does not want.
There are some who see ill, and would like to see worse.
One may have good eyes and yet see nothing.
At the end of the game we see who wins.
Who can say with certainty that one will live to see the morrow?
Better once to see than many times to hear.
It is easy to see the fly on the other person's nose, while ignoring the horse on your own.
He that peeks through a keyhole may see what will vex him.
You will often see a high collar above an empty stomach.
Venture all; see what fate brings.
Beauty is not so much what you see as what you dream.
He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good.
Put your hand in your conscience and see if it does not come out as black as pitch.
Faces of men we see but not their hearts.
Eyes that don't see have less to lament.
When you see that someone is cutting your neighbor's beard, start wetting yours.
If you see your neighbor has lost his beard, you'd best start lathering yours.
If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself.
Snake to snake, see the leg.
When I hear you, I believe you. When I see what you do, i'm surprised.
See and believe, and in order not to make a mistake, touch.
A lonely old crow, see someone you know, Fly to your right, sure to be right, And if you are hawking, money before night.
Two eyes see better than one.
He who flatters with laughter wants to see you cry.
If you see a man riding a wooden stick, say to him "Good health to your horse".
If you see him riding on a bamboo-cane, say to him, "Good health to your horse!"
A snake that you can see does not bite.
Where you see the tail, there is the mouse.
Chance all; see what destiny yields.
You will not dare mistreating the face you see in the morning.
When the eyes see nothing, the heart feels nothing.
"come see me” and "come live with me” are two different things.
What you cannot see during the day, you will not see at night.
After we fry the fat, we see what is left.
Better to see the face than to hear the name.
The monkey does not see his own hind backside; he sees his neighbor's.
Keep your eyes on the sun and you will not see the shadows.
Only heaven can see the back of a sparrow.
If you see something and say nothing, you will have nothing to suffer for.
If you see vessels afloat, remember that they have had to be built.
The ape does not see his own backside, he Sees his companion's.
Only when the coffin is closed will we see how long lasting is the name.
If you see Mt. Fuji, a hawk, and an eggplant on New Year's Day, you will be forever blessed.
If you sit by the river long enough, you will see the body of your enemy float by.
Don't rejoice over him that goes, before you see him that comes.
It is useful to first see the spark before the fire.
Climb mountains to see lowlands.
What you see in yourself is what you see in the world.
A frog hopped onto a wall and cried, ‘I can see kashmir!'
One can see it but must not say, when the master of a house passes excreta in a pot.
If you see an animal running in the early morning know that it is running away from something more scarily than the due.
When you see a rat running in a fire then what it's running away from is hotter than fire.
If you see wrongdoing or evil and say nothing against it, you become its victim.
What the elders see while sitting the young ones standing on their toes won't see.
The rabbit that dances on the broken branch of a high tree must look down to see how many mouths are opened wide beneath.
When you see gossamer flying, be sure the air is drying.
See the weakest fruit drops earliest to the ground.
Blind eyes see better than blind hearts.
If you see the fangs of the lions, don't think the lion is smiling.
The sky is not the less blue because the blind man does not see it.
The air is no less blue because the blind man doesn't see it.
'tis one beggar's woe, to see another by the door go.
Everyone is glad to see a knave caught in his own trap.
Those that rule must hear and be deaf, must see and be blind.
He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind.
Light is light, though the blind man see it not.
The tears of the adulteress are ever ready to be shed.
Your secret is your blood - when you shed it you die.
If blood is spilt on you before breakfast, you will shed blood before nightfall.
The young shed many skins.
Those who judge before they know the facts will learn to shed tears.
No matter how tall a tree might grow it will always shed its leaves on the ground.
Prepare the sickles in May, use the sickles in June, and in July carry the sickles to the tool shed.
You will shed tears with one eye like a monkey.
The pearls of a bride on her wedding day are the tears that will be shed later.
[Theу/we] Ate and drank and make merry. Then [they/we] counted and shed tears.
Witch doctors do not sell their potions to each other.
If you don't sell your head, no one will buy it.
Don't sell the sun to buy a candle.
Catch the bear before you sell his skin.
Buy on the rumor; sell on the news.
If you sell a drum in your own village, you get the money and keep the sound.
Sell what you have bought while the dust is still on your shoes.
Better to sell with regret than to keep with regret.
Better to sell it with regret than to keep it.
If power can be bought then sell your mother to get it.
Every one hates the red ant on a kola nut because he cannot eat or sell it.
The more sins you confess, the more books you will sell.
Plough your furrows deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
It is no sin to sell dear, but a sin to give ill measure.
Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market.
At court they sell a good deal of smoke without fire.
He who buys what he don't want, will soon sell what he does want.
Don't sell the bear-skin before you have killed the bear.
To sell honey to one who keeps hives.
Michael, Michael, you have no bees, and yet you sell honey.
Buy what you have no need of and ere long you shall sell your necessaries.
He would sell even his share of the sun.
Who gives sell, sells dear, if the receiver be not a churl.
He that buys the office of magistrate must of necessity sell justice.
Sell me dear, and measure me fair.
Sell not the bear's skin before you have caught him.
Don't try to sell pumpkins to a gardener.
Don't sell the fur until the bear has been shot.
When a woman cannot have good palm-nuts to give her rich oil, she still has to maintain decency in order to remain one of those that sell good quality oil.
Dont sell the skin, until you have shot the bear.
If you want to sell at a high price you'll earn little.
No use crying at the market, sell your fur coat and drink the money.
Don't sell the skin till you've caught the bear.
Don't sell the bearskin before the bear is dead.
sell beets/apples as lemons.
I sell it for what I bought it.
If you don't deceive, you can't sell.
He loses his market who has nothing to sell.
Buy from desperate people, and sell to newlyweds.
Buy from people who are desperate, and sell to newlyweds.
He can sell ice on rura penthe.
The first thing one should own is a home; and it is the last thing one should sell; for a home is ones tomb this side of heaven.
De tongue dat buy yuh does sell yuh.
An Aleppine can sell even a dried donkey skin.
Beat your gong and sell your candles.
Good things sell themselves; those that are bad have to be advertised.
Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest.
Sell not virtue to purchase wealth.
Ye'll no sell your hen in a rainy day.
Weigh justly and sell dearly.
He who wants to sell his honor will always find a buyer.
If I had two loaves of bread, I would sell one and buy hyacinths, for they would feed my soul.
Don't sell the fur before shooting the bear.
Don't sell eggs in the bottom of hens.
For a ducat brother will sell brother.
The italian invents it; the frenchman makes it; the germans sell it; the pole buys it and the tartar plunders it.
Do not sell sun in July.
Don't sell the bearskin before you have caught the bear.
Let us first catch the bear and then sell its skin.
Plough deep, while sluggards sleep; and you shall have corn to sell and keep.
Don't sell the bear's skin before you have caught him.
Among friends and relatives don't buy or sell anything.
Buy good quality and sell at the market price.
If you find your friend on the sofa at home with your wife, you had better sell the sofa.
You sell more herrings on the market than sole.
You can sell the devil if he is well cooked.
Sell publicly and buy privately.
Miguel, Miguel, you have no bees, and yet sell honey.
Nobody sows a thing that will not sell.
Praise yourself, basket, for I want to sell you.
Plough deep whilst sluggards sleep, And you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
As for friars, live with them, eat with them, and walk with them; then sell them as they do themselves.
The gods sell all things for labour.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
Better to sell than buy time.
I'll blind them to sell, and you look closely to buy.
Buy low, sell high.
Buy cheap, sell dearǃ (Thomas Lodge)
Catch the bear before you sell his skin.
If power is for sale, sell your mother to buy it. You can always buy her back again.
One shouldn't sell the bear's fur before one has killed him.
If you find your friend on the sofa at home with your wife, you had better sell the sofa.
He left for Foldvar to sell boards.
Ye'll no sell your hen in a rainy day.
Buy on the cannons, sell on the trumpets.
First kill the bear then sell its skin.
They who don't keep goats and yet sell kids, where do they get them?
To accept a favour is to sell one's freedom.
People live in each other's shelter.
You need not find a shelter for an old ox.
Sometimes the rain might force a man more than once to seek shelter under the same tree.
Everyone loves the tree that gives him shelter.
Because he killed his wife he took shelter with his in-laws.
Words are like the spider's web: a shelter for the clever ones and a trap for the not-so-clever.
During a storm you do not take shelter under just one roofing tile.
During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds.
During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds.
In the shelter of each other, the people live.
No need to seek shelter for an old ox.
God is poor's shelter and money of the rich.
An old ox will find a shelter for himself.
He eats sheep-tail with the wold, and cries with the shepherd.
The wolf is upset about what he left behind, and the shepherd is upset about what he took away.
When the dog is awake, the shepherd may sleep.
The good shepherd shears, not flays.
No flock without dog and shepherd.
It is the part of a good shepherd to shear his flock, not to skin it.
Straying shepherd, straying sheep.
A good shepherd must fleece his sheep, not flay them.
When the shepherd strays, the sheep stray.
He who has daughters is always a shepherd.
The wolf will hire himself out very cheaply as a shepherd.
The wolf can always be hired very cheap as a shepherd.
Entrust not your goats nor sheep to the unmarried Shepherd.
A man's personal god is a shepherd who finds pasturage for the man. Let him lead him like sheep to the food they can eat.
The shepherd of a herd of toads must be very patient with his rod.
A shepherd does not strike his sheep.
A coconut shell full of water is a sea to an ant.
A pearl is worthless as long as it is still in its shell.
He that would have the kernel must crack the shell.
A pearl is worthless as long as it is in its shell.
The tortoise stores its wisdom in his shell.
Like the peanut, who forgets its shell.
Frog in a coconut shell.
Water in a coconut shell is like an ocean to an ant.
One cannot scoop up the ocean with a sea shell.
An egg shouldn't be deceived by the hardness of its shell; it cannot challenge a stone in a fight.
It's the tortoise's shell, ugly and hard that protects its life long journey on earth.
A pearl is worthless as long as it is in its shell.
Hope is an egg, of which one man gets the yolk, another the white, and a third the shell.
There is more disputing about the shell than the kernel.
He'd offer you an egg if you promised not to break the shell.
Who will eat the kernel of the nut must break the shell.
Half an egg is better than an empty shell.
You need to break the shell in order to have the almond.
The hazelnut emerged from its shell and did not like the look of it.
Half an egg is better than an empty shell.
Trouble nebber blow shell"
It will be a forward cock that crows in the shell.
Alertness and courage are life's shield.
A warrior is not a wrestler, he's killed the moment is spear and shield are over powered.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a dagger.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a sword.
Wit is more often a shield than a lance.
The joke is the weapon of the witty; being serious is the shield of the stupid.
Alertness and courage are life's shield.
The shield turned the wrong way.
The mouth is the shield to protect oneself.
Even a tin knocker will shine on a dirty floor.
A rolling stone gathers no moss, but it gets a great shine.
The sun will shine on those who are standing, before it shines on those who are sitting.
He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet.
The stars shine brightest when the moon is gone.
The girl with stars in her eyes will shine like the moonlight.
The little stars will always shine while the great sun is often eclipsed.
Not even dishonesty can tarnish the shine of profit.
If the sun said it had power over the moon then let it come and shine at night.
Fireflies shine only when in motion.
There is no lie spun so fine, through which the truth won't shine.
After the storm ends, the sun will shine.
The sun does not shine on both sides of the hedge at once.
However long the moon disappears, someday it must shine again.
There is no warmth where the sun doesn't shine.
Those who shine in the second rank, are eclipsed by the first.
The sun will shine into our yard too.
Let the sun shine on me, for I care not for the moon.
Cowgirl Up Cos The Buckle Don't Shine in The Dirt.
The sun will shine on those who stand before it shines on those who kneel under them.
The sun will shine down our street too.
He should wear iron shone, that bides his neighbours deed.
Hens perched on top will shit on those below.
Those who are born to be small shit never make it to big shit.
A handful of dust, four capitals and shit on all i possessed.
If yu de shit, an' si certain people/person a come; sidong inna it.
He who lives on hope, dies on shit.
Those who sleep with children wake up with shit on their asses.
Who lives together with a pig will end up eating shit.
Who loans his ass to someone else should shit through his ribs.
Never mistake chicken shit for an egg.
One should not stir the shit as it will be even more stinking.
Clap a carle on the culs, and he will shit in your louf.
Better to sit next to someone taking a shit rather than someone carving stone.
Rich people eat gold and shit lead.
The nose of him whose guide is a crow will never get out of the shit.
Shit rolls downhill.
Shit or get off the pot.
The buffalo's shit is dry on top when inside its wet.
You don't shit where you eat.
War camp Utti: oh shit, my intelligence disappeared!
Nine other flavors and the taste of shit the tenth.
If the imam farts, the community will shit.
No matter how sharp it is, a knife will never cut it's own handle.
He is as sharp as a leaden dagger.
A woman's tongue is sharp enough to pierce the toughest flesh.
Poor iron won't make a sharp sword.
The sayings of the wise are like the sharp sticks that shepherds use to guide sheep.
Sharp acids corrode their own containers.
What comes seldom, comes sharp.
A woman like a goose, a sharp pecking woman.
Knotty timber must have sharp wedges.
Other people's money has sharp teeth.
You need a sharp axe for a tough bough.
Sharp vinegar may damage its container.
A sharp tooth for hard bread.
A sharp knife is nothing without a sharp eye.
No needle is sharp at both ends.
No matter how sharp your teeth are, you can't bite water.
No matter how sharp a knife is, it can never cut its handle.
A sharp stomach makes short devotion.
Spurs that are too sharp make even the mule rear.
Young dogs have sharp teeth.
He must keep a sharp look-out who would speak the truth.
Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee.
Where God gives hard bread He also gives sharp teeth.
Whose end of tongue is sharp, the edge of his head must be hard.
A sharp tooth for hard bread.
Two sharp swords cannot be is one sheath.
Grief for a husband is like a pain in the elbow, sharp and short.
You need sharp axes for knotty trees.
The envious man's face grows sharp and his eyes big.
The mind is best taught with a sharp whip.
You are sharp on one side like a knife.
Love sees sharply, hatred sees even more sharp, but Jealousy sees the sharpest for it is love and hate at the same time.
A needle is sharp only at one end.
Have a mouth as sharp as a dagger, but a heart as soft as tofu.
Even when a sharp sword rests on your neck, don't give up on mercy.
When the moon is shining the cripple becomes hungry for a walk.
The sun loses nothing by shining into a puddle.
A cursed horse has a shining coat.
Runaway son, a shining jewel; runaway daughter, tarnished.
While the sun is shining, bask in it!
A false friend is like a shadow their only with you when the sun is shining.
Do not pray when it is raining if you do not pray when the sun is shining.
When the moon is shining the cripple becomes hungry for a walk.
When the sun is shining, bask.
Fall seven times, stand up the eighth.
When we take one step toward to God, he takes seven steps toward us.
Seven people don't wait for one.
Onion treats seven ailments.
Keep a thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
One father can feed seven children, but seven children cannot feed one father.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll always find a use for it.
If he has seven blind daughters, he will marry them in an hour.
If there is only one earring among seven daughters, there will always be a quarrel on festival days.
Whatever you do, think about it seven times.
Seven troubles - one responce.
Measure seven times, cut once.
For every one with a plow-there're seven with a spoon.
Seven sons of one mother, and each one of a different mind.
The life of a guest is seven days.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight.
Never trust a woman, even if she has borne you seven children.
Consider the facts seven times before you suspect someone.
Inquire seven times then doubt a person.
To have saved one human life is worth more than to build a paGoda with seven stories.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
A cat has nine lives, as the onion seven skins.
One year's seeding makes seven years weeding.
A fly, a harlot, a beggar, a rat, and gusty wind; the village-boss and the tax collector – these seven are always annoying to others.
Others' bread has seven crusts.
A man fails seven times and rises eight times.
A woman has got seven souls.
Seven women in their right senses are surpassed by a mad man.
There are seven different kind of weather in one autumn night.
One quill is better in the hand than seven geese upon the strand.
A threatened man lives seven years.
Seven versts# to heaven, and all the way through the forest.
With seven nurses the child loses its eye.
Seven nannies make a one-eyed kid.
Seven days is the length of a guest's life.
Before you take any decision, consider its effect on the next seven generations.
Seven people do not wait for one person.
Rain before seven, fine before eleven.
A just man falls seven times, and rises up again.
Fall six times, rise seven.
The court official in one life has seven rebirths as a beggar.
A neglected duty may returns tomorrow with seven others at its back.
You may poke a man's fire after you've known him for seven years.
Forget brotherhood, each goat will cost your seven dinars.
Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury.
For the diligent, a week has seven days; for the slothful, seven tomorrows.
If you let the weeds grow for a year you will need seven to clear them.
One can speak and seven can sing.
One fool may ask more questions than seven wise men can answer.
Summer sown corn and women's advice turn out once in every seven years.
Many look with one eye at what they give, but with seven at what they receive.
Nature draws stronger than seven oxen.
Six hours sleep for a man, seven for a woman, and eight for a fool.
One for sorrow, two for joy, three for a girl, four for a boy, five for silver, six for gold, and seven for a secret that must never be told.
February has seven hats.
Who eats lying on his side will commit ten sins, who eats lying on his back will commit seven sins.
Saints sleep three hours, merchants sleep five, ordinary people seven and the lazy sleep nine.
No mad dog runs seven years.
A mother can more easily feed seven children than seven children can feed one mother.
Seven axes lie together, two distaffs apart.
For a mad dog, seven versts is not a long detour.
One with a plow ? seven with a spoon.
Seven brothers in a council make wrong right.
Seven is company, and nine confusion.
The servant wench that has a mother in town swoons seven times a day.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
Seven cities warred for Homer being dead, Who living had no roof to shrowd his head.
In his decision the judge with seven reasons gives only one in court.
Claim to virginity, after seven moppets!
It chances in an hour, that happens not in seven years.
Ane year a Nurish, seven years a Daw.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll find a use for it.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
When the shooting starts climb on your camel and head for the mountaintops.
Shooting space garbage is no test of a warriors mettle.
Talking without thinking is like shooting without taking aim.
Talking without thinking is shooting without aiming.
Before shooting, one must aim.
Action without thought is like shooting without aim.
Don't sell the fur before shooting the bear.
Often shooting hits the mark.
Frivolous talk is like shooting without aiming.
What is a big shot except a little shot that kept on shooting.
Flies will never leave the shop of a sweetmaker.
Don't open a shop unless you know how to smile.
It's better to sleep on the floor in an incense shop than in a bed in a fishmarket.
A man with a sour face should not open a shop.
He who goes to the blacksmith's shop comes home with scorched clothes.
In the shop of the sightless jeweller, the ruby and pebble are one.
Every shop has its trick.
Keep your shop and your shop will keep you.
Maybe a naked person should not be taken to a cloth shop.
Priests return to the temple, merchants to the shop.
A man without a smiling face must not open a shop.
An elephant in the china shop.
God save you from narrow doorways, a caning, stones thrown at the blind and the weighing of shop keepers.
To open a shop is easy -- the hard part is keeping it open.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the devil.
When all things spoke the potato said, ‘set me warm, dig me warm, eat me warm, that's all i want.'
To set fire to the wood, you need the help of the wind.
Without a woman's help, a man cannot set up a tent.
A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return.
Don't set the attic on fire just because you didn't catch any mice.
You set the trap when the rat has gone.
May the sun set on where my love dwells.
You cannot hide the smoke of the hut you set on fire.
I have no set principles; I make adaptability to all circumstances my principle.
Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight.
How can you put out a fire set on a cart-load of firewood with only a cup of water.
Don't set sail on someone else's star.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
Don't value a gem by what it is set in.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
Let your anger set with the sun and not rise again.
Tell your secret to your friend and he will set his foot on your neck.
The sun is still beautiful, though ready to set.
The more you stroke the cat's back the more set sets up her tail.
As soon as he set her down she said that she was tired.
Your value is set by your worth.
It is good rowing with the sail set.
It is good rowing with set sail.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he don't trot, but gallops.
Set thy expense according to thy trade.
Set your expense according to your trade.
Against change of fortune set a brave heart.
If the devil catch a man idle he'll set him at work.
If you have a loitering servant, set his dinner before him and send him on an errand.
One should set sails with the tide.
Good people have set sail to arrive at such gentleness as cuts like diamonds.
The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free.
One dog yelping at nothing will set ten thousand straining at their collars.
Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight.
A person who wants to see is people progress must first set to look into their tradition.
When a bee stings a man, he doesn't set off to destroy all beehives.
It's not the gale but the set of the sail that determines the way you go.
When two agree in their desire, One sparke will set them both on fire.
Set good against evil.
A mule who goes in search of a fine set of antlers, will come back with his ears cut off.
Every sun has to set.
Set a beggar on a horse and he'll ride to the devil.
Mother, I must have a husband, or I shall set fire to the house.
Tell your friend your secret, and he will set his foot on your neck.
Curses are like processions: they return to whence they set out.
Who would not have feet set on his neck, let him not stoop.
To set the wolf to keep the sheep.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge.
Set a cow to catch a hare.
Don't build bigger houses than you may set roofs on.
You can't use your hand to force the sun to set.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Set hard heart against hard hap.
All cats are not to be set down for witches.
Set hard heart against hard hap.
Set a peasant on horseback, and he forgets both God and man.
Set a sprat to catch a mackerel.
Sow dry and set wet.
To set fire to a church is not so bad as to speak ill of a virgin.
A jealous woman will set a whole house on fire.
It is easy to set a cask a rolling.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death; Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the Devil.
Set all at sixe and seven.
To set the cart before the horse.
The sun will set without thy assistance.
One comes to be of just such stuff as that on which the mind is set.
Trouble don't set up like rain.
A set of white teeth does not indicate a pure heart.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
Don't value a gem by what it is set in.
It's not the gale but the set of the sail that determines the way you go.
The truth shall set you free, or The truth will set you free.
Не will never set the Thames on fire.
Set a fox to catch a fox.
The future is not set, there is no fate but what we make for ourselves.
Do not set the mill on fire in order to burn the mice.
Set a knave to catch a knave.
The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free.
If I dealt in candles, the sun wouldn't set; if I dealt in shrouds, people would stop dying.
Set your sail according to the wind.
It is easy to set a cask a rolling. [To influence a fool.].
Milk and honey have different colours, but they share the same house peacefully.
He who divides and shares is left with the best share.
The man on his feet carries off the share of the man sitting down.
Mutual affection gives each his share.
However little food we have, we'll share it even if it's only one locust.
Who divides honey with the bear, will be like to get the lesser share..
If you hold high office, the whole village will share your fame.
A stranger does not share the monkey.
If there is any profit in partnership, two will share a woman.
If you are absent you lose your share.
You can't flee your lot nor share it with another.
If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely.
He who is first to receive something forgets when his friend will receive their share.
Enjoy breakfast all alone, share lunch with your best friend and give dinner to your enemy.
He who is best for me is he who shall get the best share.
Don't be hard and don't be soft and don't desert your friend for your own share.
Fate and self-help share equally in shaping our destiny.
He would sell even his share of the sun.
Share riches and poverty returns.
To friend and foe alike I tell them how bad she is, so that I don't have to share her with anyone.
Let each do his share of the work.
Mutual affection is when each gives his share.
A friend is someone you share the path with.
Fat cats and thin birds can share a yard, but thin cats and fat birds no way.
All people share the same ancestry.
People with the same disease share sympathy.
Charity is not a bone you throw to a dog, but a bone you share with a dog.
If you share a man's wealth, try to lessen his misfortune.
Two tigers cannot share one mountain (forest).
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.
One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor between them.
A chief may have more wives than he can remember but you dare not try to share his wives with him.
A mouse does not share a bowl with a cat.
Even two friendly dogs cannot share a single bone.
No matter how kind a man might be he cannot accept to share his wife.
A bad cook also has his/her share of the bad food.
It is not right to ask a man with elephantiasis of the scrotum to take on small pox as well, when thousands of other people have not had even their share of small diseases.
Charity is not a bone you throw to your dog but a bone you share with your dog.
If something happens to the master the servants will get his share too.
Don't share the skin while it's still on the bear.
The lion's share.
Those who want to share the gains, shall also share the losses.
Don't be too bold, or you will burn your eyes; but don't be too slow, or you will lose your share.
Who does not share what he is given will not share what he has in his barn.
To share is sweet, but to pay is bitter.
The world's a stage; each plays his part, and takes his share.
Never share a foxhole with anyone braver than you are.
We can enjoy nothing without some one to share the pleasure.
If you share your friend's crime you make it your own.
One who plants grapes by the road side, and one who marries a pretty woman, share the same problem.
Ninazu, a bird flying around is your share.
You are sure to marry a woman either beautiful or ugly; If ugly she will be a punishment; if beautiful, you will share her with others. Therefore do not marry.
He who has not learned to share his blessings with others has not found the true path to enduring happiness.
You can share the same bed but you can't share the same dream.
When you're a stranger in a land, if good comes to it may you have you share and if bad comes let it go to the owners of the land who know what gods should be appeased.
We share the same sun but not our homes.
Charity is not a bone you throw to your dog but a bone you share with your dog.
Share and share alike.
Every shot does not bring down a bird.
If the bird hadn't sung, it wouldn't have been shot.
Had the pheasant not screamed, it wouldn't have been shot.
It is easy to dodge a spear that comes in front of you but hard to avoid an arrow shot from behind.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
If you were born to be shot, you'll never be hung.
If `almost' did not exist, said the woman, "than I would have shot a hare."
He is a bad shot who cannot find an excuse.
A fine shot never killed a bird.
Dont sell the skin, until you have shot the bear.
We are often shot with our own feathers.
An arrow once shot is hard to get back.
A fool's bolt is soon shot.
Many buy the bearskin before the bear is shot.
Charge nae mair shot than the piece ‘ll bear.
Many a shot goes into the heather.
Better to be shot with a crossbow than rejected by a window slammed shut.
A man who shoots his arrows as he makes them does not realize when he has shot a whole sheaf.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
Don't sell the fur until the bear has been shot.
An arrow once shot never comes back.
Water washes up everything but shame.
He that asks knows one shame; he that doesn't knows two.
Shame is worse than death.
He who knows not shame does whatever he likes.
Those who had some shame are dead.
The mother-in-law shows you her thighs without shame, you are the embarrassed one.
Having grey hair because of old age is not a shame.
To ask is a temporary shame; not to ask, an eternal one.
Better to die than to live in shame.
Where there is no shame, there is no honor.
When a man cheats on you once, shame on him, when he cheats on you twice, shame on you.
Fooled once shame on you, fooled twice shame on me.
If you act as good as you look, you'll never shame your family.
If a man deceive me once, shame on him; but if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
Ask for a science that would be useful to you, would keep you from harm and shame, then elevate you.
Play not with a man till you hurt him, nor jest till you shame him.
Where'er an ass is crown'd to fame, both town and country bear the shame.
What is no sin, is no shame.
Women are shy and shame prevents them from refusing a man.
If a rogue deceives me once, shame on him. If he deceives me twice, shame on me.
Patience is a virtue that causes no shame.
A list full of gain and a village full of shame.
Poverty is no shame.
Shame is ever a part of poverty.
What would shame him would turn back a funeral.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, prepare to die.
Who has no shame all the world is his own.
To the person with little shame, the whole world is his.
Who hath little shame the world is all his own.
Better be in debt than in shame.
It's no shame to look into the warm spring sun and regret a lost limb.
There's no shame in clothing you haven't cut yourself.
A thin cat and a fat woman are the shame of a household.
Who seeks shame will find shame.
To a person who has real shame, words are oath.
Better poor with honour than rich with shame.
Shame lasts longer than poverty.
There is no shame in not knowing; the shame lies in not finding out.
Dine with arrogance, sleep with shame.
A shameless person has no sense of shame at all.
A big log is a shame to the fire, an evil person is a shame to the house.
Prosperity teaches one, and poverty puts one to shame.
The execution of but one warrior brings shame to all.
The shame you cannot lift away, you had better let lie.
It is no shame at all to work for money.
If a man fools me once, shame on him. If he fools me twice, shame on me.
Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.
Shame is forgotten, debts are not.
Shame to the house where the hen crows and the cock is silent.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.
Poverty is not a shame, but the being ashamed of it is.
Better die with honour than live with shame.
It is better to die in revenge than to live on in shame.
Shame comes to no man unless he himself help it on the way.
He who sows inequity shall reap shame.
A bad hair cut is two people's shame.
Who deceives me once, shame on him; if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
Three diseases without shame: Love, itch and thirst.
If a man fools me once, shame on him; if he fools me twice, shame on me.
It is no shame to tell the truth.
Tell the truth and shame the devil.
Hasty work - shame for the craftsman.
If a man deceives me once, shame on him; if he deceives me twice, shame on me.
Pride goes before, and shame follows.
Old sin makes new shame.
It is the crime that causes the shame, and not the punishment.
It's an ill cause that a lawyer thinks shame of.
He that spends his geir on a whore, hes both shame and skaith.
Shame is past the shad of your haire.
A neck without a head, buttocks without a hole and a girl without shame are not worth admiring or marrying.
You can't shame the wicked.
The child that is left to himself will put his mother to shame.
Express yourself earnestly, and you have no reason for shame even if you lack talent.
No man learneth but by pain or shame.
Who lives on the score has shame evermore.
You can find no pomegranates on a willow tree, nor shame in the wicked.
Who leaves no traces in the field, will be put to shame at harvest.
Where the heart is past hope, the face is past shame.
What raging rashly is begun, Challengeth shame before half done.
Where there is no shame, there is no honor.
No shame in asking questions, even to people of lower status.
Not the pain, but the shame.
It's not a sin to be a Savonian, but it's a big shame.
It's a sin and shame, if one sweats at working for a stranger.
Speak the truth and shame the devil.
Better die with honor than live with shame.
A thin cat and a fat woman are the shame of a household.
The child that is left to himself will put his mother to shame.
The boat sails by, the shore remains.
He who has not yet reached the opposite shore should not make fun of him who is drowning.
It is safest to sail within reach of the shore.
The best helmsmen stand on shore.
The sea becomes the shore, the shore becomes the sea.
Foam will always find its way to the shore.
Do not believe that you will reach your destination without leaving the shore.
Help thy brother's boat across, and lo! thine own has reached the shore.
Help your brother's boat across, and your own will reach the shore.
A wreck on shore is a beacon at sea.
When once at sea, do not long to be on shore.
Do not hope to reach a destination without leaving the shore.
Do not throw away the oars before the boat reaches the shore.
Great estates may venture more; little boats must keep near shore.
Man to the hills, woman to the shore.
When a net is worn out, it is thrown away on the shore.
Quiet streams erode the shore.
Pray to God but continue to row to the shore.
To swim and swim more, and be drowned on shore.
When you in the Midsummer night, drunk, stand up on your boat to pee, you may see your widow-to-be on the shore."
A wreck on shore is a beacon at sea.
The sea of bitterness has no bounds - repent and the shore is near.
The shirt is nearer than the doublet.
A soldier on furlough lets his shirt hang out of his trousers.
A thread from everyone will make a shirt for the needy.
My skin is closer to me than my shirt is.
The skin fits closer than the shirt.
A thousand curses never tore a shirt.
The shirt is nearer to the body than the coat.
Nothing bolder than the miller's shirt, that every morning collars a thief.
It is a lonesome washing without a man's shirt in it.
Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin.
Let not your shirt know all your thoughts.
A custom wears a shirt of iron.
Do not trust even your own shirt.
If someone sweats for you, you change his shirt.
My shirt is closer to me than my cloak.
My shirt is nearer than my cloak.
The skin is nearer than the shirt.
[One's] own shirt [is] closer to the body.
The shirt is nearer than the frock.
The shirt is nearer than the coat.
A man's shirt does not change the color of his skin.
If my shirt knew my design, I'd burn it.
You cannot take a shirt from a naked man.
It's a lonely washing that has no man's shirt in it.
Death is closer than the shirt.
Near is my coat, but nearer is my shirt.
Men will give away their last shirt to become millionaires.
Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin.
Thread off the world ? shirt for naked.
If everyone gives one thread, the poor man will have a shirt.
Never show the truth naked -- just in its shirt.
Close sits my shirt, but closer my skin.
Life is like child's shirt: short and shitty.
Handy as a pocket on a shirt.
The shirt of death does not have pockets.
A custom wears a shirt of iron.
Men will give away their last shirt to become millionaires.
Your shirt doesn't belong to this laundry.
Nothing so bold as a miller's shirt.
Let not your shirt know your way of thinking.
Envy shoots as others and wounds herself.
The more shoots, the more leaves.
Envy shoots at others and wounds itself.
He who shoots often, hits at last.
Man shoots, God carries the bullets.
If a child shoots an arrow that reaches the top of a tall palm tree, then it must be that an elderly person carved the arrow for him.
The coward shoots with shut eyes.
The more shoots, the more leaves.
You won't help shoots grow by pulling them up higher.
The archer that shoots badly has a lie ready.
Envy always shoots at a high mark.
The archer that shoots badly has a lie ready.
A man who shoots his arrows as he makes them does not realize when he has shot a whole sheaf.
The tailor ill-dressed, the shoemaker ill-shod.
Let the shoemaker remain at his last.
There's no hurry, said the shoemaker, he had gruel with his awl.
If a Jew cannot be a shoemaker, he will dream of being a professor.
Shoemaker stick to your last.
Shoemaker stick to your last.
Shoemaker, stick to your last.
Shoemaker, stick to your trade.
In the house of the shoemaker there are no shoes.
The shoemaker goes barefoot.
Shoemaker, not above the sandal.
Showing off other people's feathers.
Suspicion may be no fault, but showing it may be a great one.
He means well, but has a bad way of showing it.
The klingon who kills without showing his face has no honor.
A cat that is hidden with its tail showing.
There is no point in showing the way to an old hare.
A blank page is God's way of showing you how hard it is to be God.
Eighty percent of life is showing up.
I shall paint you in your own colours. [Take you according to your own showing.].
Counsel is as welcome to him as a shoulder of mutton to a sick horse.
Who lets another sit on his shoulder, will soon have him on his head.
Put it on your shoulder and say it is not a burden.
At whatever age a child gets a problem, at the same age she has to shoulder the responsibility.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
A child is an axe; when it cuts you, you still pick it up and put it on your shoulder.
The back dies for the shoulder and the shoulder knows nothing about it.
He who lets another sit on his shoulder will soon have him on his head.
Dwarf on a giant's shoulder sees farther of the two.
If you are standing upright, don't worry if your shadow is crooked.
You can't move faster than your shadow.
As the sun's shadow shifts, so there is no permanence on earth.
Life is a shadow and a mist; it passes quickly by, and is no more.
Woman is like your shadow; follow her, she flies; fly from her, she follows.
No matter how fast a man is, he cannot outrun his shadow.
However swift a man, he will not outstrip his shadow.
Every tree casts shadow on its own bottom.
A coquettish woman is like a shadow -- as you chase her she runs away, and if you run away, she chases after you.
The shadow should be the same length as the body.
Coming events cast their shadow before.
Nobody can rest in his own shadow.
Envy follows merit like the shadow follows the body.
Beware of a man's shadow and a bee's sting.
Often a branch is broken off the tree by the one who has rested in its shadow.
Don't be like a shadow: a constant companion, but not a comrade.
If you are eager to be in the shadow, leave your axe at home.
Love without friendship is like a shadow without the sun.
Afraid of his own shadow.
Afraid of one's shadow.
Even a hair casts its shadow.
Like an Irish wolf she barks at her own shadow.
He who dreams for too long will become like his shadow.
A little man often cast a long shadow.
The dog that has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow.
When the sun is highest it casts the least shadow.
It is good living under the shadow of the belfry.
Catch not at the shadow, and lose the substance.
Even the white lily casts a shadow.
Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow.
High trees give more shadow than fruit.
You may be clever but you can never lose your shadow.
No sunshine but hath some shadow.
Our shadow will follow us.
Never drop the bone to catch the shadow.
Don't be like the shadow: a constant companion, yet not a comrade.
Shadow of a stick canot protect one from the sun.
Shoot at someone's shadow with sand.
One dog snarls at a shadow; a hundred howl at each other's barking.
One's shadow grows larger than life when admired by the light of the moon.
When the shadow of a tree is bent, straighten the tree, not the shadow.
No matter how fast a man can run, he can never chase his shadow and catch it.
A false friend is like a shadow their only with you when the sun is shining.
Death is a shadow that always follows the body.
No man sees his shadow who faces the sun.
From praise, as from a shadow, a man is neither bigger nor smaller.
Beware of the dog himself, his shadow does not bite.
Every light hath its shadow.
Every hair casts its shadow.
The shadow of a lord is a cap for a fool.
When the light is crooked, the shadow is crooked.
No hair so small but has his shadow.
A man cannot jump over his own shadow.
The reputation of a man is like his shadow; it sometimes follows and sometimes precedes him, it is sometimes longer and sometimes shorter than his natural size.
There is no bush so small but casts its shadow.
The friendship of a great man is like the shadow of a bush -- soon gone.
So the man, so his shadow.
Who has never been burned in the sun won't know the value of shadow.
Every hair casts its shadow.
He who has been stung by the scorpion is frightened at its shadow.
Glory is the shadow of virtue.
A dog which has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow.
The shadow for the substance.
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance. (Strauss, 1998)
Let the time pass and the shadow stretchǃ.
The shadow of death is just dawning of life.
Catch not a shadow and lose the substance.
Big trees cast more shadow than fruit.
Man is like a breath, his days like a passing shadow.
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance.
Every hair makes its shadow.
Even the smallest little bush casts some shadow.
It flies at our approach but follows us as we retire. [A Shadow, Glory, or Love.].
If you shoot your arrows at stones, you will damage them.
Do not scare the birds you are going to shoot.
Do not shoot a glass arrow into a painted deer.
Let rats shoot arrows at each other.
If you would shoot a general, shoot his horse first.
To bend a bamboo, start when it is a shoot.
To talk without thinking is to shoot without aiming.
The cat has leave to look at the queen and the queen has leave to shoot it.
If you see a Greek and a wolf, avoid the wolf and shoot the Greek.
A blind man may sometimes shoot a crow.
Using a cannon to shoot a mosquito.
You can best shoot an eagle with an arrow made from its own feathers.
Shoot a daw and a crow, and soon you'll hit a falcon.
Draw the bow but don't shoot -- it is a bigger threat to be intimidated than to be hit.
Shoot at someone's shadow with sand.
When you shoot an arrow of truth, dip its point in honey.
Drink is the curse of the land. It makes you fight with your neighbour. It makes you shoot at your landlord – and it makes you miss him.
He did not shoot the hare but the pot is already on the fire.
If I had a dog as daft, I would shoot him.
A hunter who has only one arrow does not shoot with careless aim.
If it were God's will, you could shoot with a broom too.
He must shoot well who always hits the mark.
Shoot at a pigeon and kill a crow.
Close does not shoot any hares.
A hunter with only one arrow does not shoot carelessly.
A hunter with one arrow doesn't shoot with a careless aim.
Snailie, snailie, shoot out yer horn, and tell us if it'll be a bonny day the morn.
If i had a dog as daft as you i would shoot him.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan, along comes the beetle and sticks out her foot.
Everyone knows where his own shoe pinches him.
Don't scratch your shoe when it's your foot that itches.
Avoid suspicion: when you're walking through your neighbor's melon patch, don't tie your shoe.
A sandal is not a shoe; a cap is not a turban.
If the shoe fits, put it on.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.
Everybody knows best where his own shoe pinches.
A buckle is a great addition to an old shoe.
The wearer best knows where the shoe pinches.
He that feels sorry for the shoe, loses the horse.
No one perceives where the shoe pinches but he who wears it.
There never was a shoe however handsome that did not become an ugly slipper.
No one knows where another's shoe pinches.
He whom the shoe fits should put it on.
One can't shoe a running horse.
All feet tread not in one shoe.
A shoemaker's wife and a smith's mare are always the worst shod.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost.
For want of a nail the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; for want of a horse the rider was lost.
You can't look at the stars while you are walking if you have a stone in your shoe.
Only the person who wears the shoe feels it when it pitches.
Better cut the shoe than pinch the foot.
Everyone knows where his shoe pinches.
Spring is when you feel like whistling even with a shoe full of slush.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
An unshod mocks a shoe.
The best manure is under the farmer's shoe.
A nail secures the horse-shoe, the shoe the horse, the horse the man, the man the castle, and the castle the whole land.
No one knows better where the shoe pinches that he who wears it.
Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him.
The same shoe does not fit every foot.
To punish a student, use a shoe lace.
Every shoe fits not every foot.
Everyone knows best where his own shoe pinches.
The common horse is worst shod.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost; for want of a shoe the horse is lost; for want of a horse the rider is lost.
A black shoe makes a blythe heart.
Shod in the cradle, bair-foot in the Stubble.
You can't shoe a horse while it is running.
Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him.
Shoemakers are always the worst shod.
A handsome shoe often pinches the feet.
Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him.
The same shoe does not fit every foot.
Anxious about the shoe, but disregarding the foot.
To know where the shoe pinches. (14th century)
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse is lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
A kingdom is lost for want of a shoe.
The smith's horse and the shoemakers children are worst shod.
Anxious about the shoe, but disregarding the foot. [Careful about external appearances, but regardless of the culture of the mind.].
I murmured because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no feet.
The shoemaker's shoes have no heels.
Kill a cow to donate shoes.
There is no use in carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking.
There's more to dancing than a pair of dancing shoes.
Sell what you have bought while the dust is still on your shoes.
If you are wearing shoes, you don't fear the thorns.
Look for a thrifty woman -- even though it may cost you a pair of shoes.
Without investigating the water, don't take off your shoes.
Better wear out shoes than sheets.
I complained because I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
It is of no use making shoes for geese.
Doctor Luther's shoes do not fit every parish priest.
If you don't want flour on your shoes, don't go into the mill.
If God sends you down a stony path, may he give you strong shoes.
It's no use carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking.
The blacksmith's horse and the cobbler's wife are always the last to have shoes.
One knows where the shoes hurt.
It is better to wear out one's shoes than one's sheets.
Between saying and doing, many a pair of shoes is worn out.
I felt sorry for myself because I had no shoes - until I met a man who had no feet.
No matter how beautiful the shoes are, they still have to go on the ground.
When you try to walk the straight and narrow you get pebbles in your shoes.
It's ill waiting for dead men's shoes.
Being able to feel it on wooden shoes.
He runs as fast as if he had eggs in his shoes.
He who rides the mule shoes her.
Luxury begins the day a man starts wearing shoes.
Who has shoes does not fear thorns.
The prettiest of shoes makes a sorry hat.
Reshape one's feet to fit into new shoes.
Try out your shoes on your feet - gauge people against their misfortune.
A lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is still putting on its shoes.
Old shoes wear best.
You need more than dancing shoes to be a dancer.
A cobbler formed the shape of shoes on a wooden foot shaped last. If it lasted long he was happy.
Came back with Hunain's shoes. meaning: Came back with nothing.
A pair of light shoes is not all that is needed for dancing.
Not every wood will make wooden shoes.
He who waits for dead men's shoes, may have to go long barefoot.
He who has no shoes dances in his socks.
Money makes the horse gallop whether he has shoes or not.
Look not out for dead men's shoes.
Never let your feet run faster than your shoes.
Look not out for dead men's shoes.
Look not out for dead men's shoes.
What is the use of a big wide world when your shoes are too small?
Before criticizing a man, walk a mile in his shoes.
I complained I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
In the house of the shoemaker there are no shoes.
Regular feet can't be affected by irregular shoes.
As welcome as water in one's shoes.
Dutch: Don't throw away your old shoes till you have got new ones.
He that waits for dead men's shoes may go long enough barefoot.
The boy ain't drunk but has slippery shoes.
Who carries ever worst shoes than a shoemaker's wife?
He that waits for a dead man's shoes may long go barefoot.
He who waits for a dead man's shoes is in danger of going barefoot.
If you would resemble the vulture, look out for a carcase. [Wait for dead men's shoes.].
He who becomes a sheep is eaten by the wolf.
Better one day as a lion than a hundred as a sheep.
O, sheep if I do not eat you, you will eat me, said the hyena.
Without the shepherd, sheep are not a flock.
The panther and the sheep never hunt together.
A poor man's sheep will never get fat.
A sheep does not lament the death of a goat's kid.
A sheep cannot bleat in two different places at the same time.
One takes care of one's own: when a bachelor roasts yam, he share's it with his sheep.
There was never a scabby sheep in a flock that didn't like to have a comrade.
Rather lose the wool than the sheep.
Let every sheep hand by its own leg.
Eagles fly alone, but sheep flock together.
Tis a silly sheep that confesses to the wolf.
Every flock has its black sheep.
A wolf hankers after sheep even at his last gasp.
The wolf is well pleased with the kick of a sheep.
Does sheep manure turn to caramel?
The sheep drinks but it's the goat that gets drunk.
Such is the fate of the sheep: either shorn or roasted.
When a merchant talks about sheep he means the hide.
If the goat says it will become a sheep, there will always be black spots on its body.
The sayings of the wise are like the sharp sticks that shepherds use to guide sheep.
How come that when I lost my sheep and could not find it, I was questioned; but the hyena who was found with the sheepskin is not questioned.
More lambs than sheep are slaughtered.
A leap year is never a good sheep year.
Let every sheep hang by his own shank.
Old sheep shouldn't dress in lamb's fashion.
If one sheep leaps over the ditch, all the rest will follow.
Shall the sheep go astray, they will be led by the ill goat.
The sheep that bleat the most give the least milk.
It's a poor sheep that cannot carry its own wool.
A woman like a sheep, an affable friendly woman.
Outside a sheep, inside a wolf.
Your wife and sheep early at home.
Be peaceful yet vigilant - a sheep will bite someone without a stick.
The wolf bemoans the sheep, and then eats it.
On every small pretext the wolf seizes the sheep.
A mild sheep is suck by every lamb.
All the sheep are not for the wolf.
Better to lose the wool than the sheep.
Every time the sheep bleats it loseth a mouthful.
It is better to give away the wool than the sheep.
One scabby sheep spoils a flock.
Every sheep is hung by his own leg.
Noh care how boar hog try fi hide under sheep wool, ‘im grunt always betray ‘im.
During April rainfalls the pig gets butchered, the oxen gets fattened and the sheep laughs.
Coupled sheep drown one another.
No sheep runs into the mouth of a sleeping wolf.
They are fools whose sheep run away twice.
The scabbier the sheep the harder it bleats.
He howls with the wolves, and bleats with the sheep.
On a small pretence the wolf devours the sheep.
Counted sheep are eaten by the wolf.
The sheep that is too tame is sucked by too many lambs.
The sheep on the mountain is higher than the bull on the plain.
Make yourself a sheep and the wolf is ready.
A bleating sheep loses a bite.
While the sheep bleats it loses its mouthful.
You can shear a sheep many times but you can skin him only once.
Black sheep of the family.
One scabby sheep infects a thousand sheep.
Every sheep is hung by its own leg.
You might as well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb.
The hyena sleeps with the sheep.
It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
While wrangling over a quarter of pig, you can lose a flock of sheep.
One day as a tiger is worth a thousand as a sheep.
Do not allow the sheep to die for a halfpenny of tar.
The quarrel of the sheep doesn't concern the goats.
The hyena sleeps with the sheep.
Never let a friend lie in your sheep farm he might get hungry.
If you haven't any sheep you won't know that a fox is a wild animal.
He is a fool whose sheep runs away twice.
Death devours lambs as well as sheep.
Every family has at least one black sheep.
Give me wool and tomorrow you will have a sheep.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
You may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
You cannot shear the sheep closer than the skin.
The cow is milked, not the ox; the sheep is shorn, not the horse.
One would rather be bitten by wolves than by sheep.
He that wants to hang a dog, says that it bites the sheep.
Many a sheep goes out woolly and comes home shorn.
God help the sheep when the wolf is judge.
A drunkard can be a sheep, a monkey or a lion.
One mangy sheep spoils a whole flock.
It is a bad sheep that is too lazy to carry its own fleece.
Once bitten, twice shy.
A man is shy in another man's corner.
If you feed the mouth, the eye becomes shy.
If a girl seems as shy as a mouse, you still have to look out for the tiger within her.
Women are shy and shame prevents them from refusing a man.
A shy woman is worth a city, a shy man is worth a goat.
Once bitten. Twice shy.
Even when a girl is as shy as a mouse, you still have to beware of the tiger within.
If you are too shy to ask, you might lose your way. When you go away, the conversation changes.
They whom got shy, died.
A shy beggar has an empty scrip.
Once bit, twice shy.
The one who is shy will never have a son.
Whoever is shy, will die (suffer) from hunger.
Once bitten twice shy.
The favor of a man in power is like a summer shower.
Don't use your hairdryer in the shower, you prat.
A Kerry shower is of twenty-four hours.
A heavy shower is soon over.
A cloak is not made for a single shower of rain.
One shower doesn't make a flood.
Pemba does not run away fro a small shower.
It is the first shower that wets.
The sun shines brighter after a shower.
A woman like a sickle, a strong stubborn woman.
When a sickle is drawn, it in turn draws the tree to which it is hooked.
To hang your sickle on another man's corn.
If you are planning to travel where corn grows, you should take a sickle with you.
Take not your sickle to another man's corn.
A bad reaper never gets a good sickle.
A bad sheerer never had a good sickle.
He puts his sickle into another man's harvest.
A bad reaper never gets a good sickle.
It's normal for a sieve to have holes in it.
You cannot cover up the sun with a sieve.
Storing milk in a sieve, you complain of bad luck?
He is blind enough who cannot see through a sieve.
A boy's love is water in a sieve.
Do you carry the trough, husband, and I will carry the sieve, which is as heavy as the devil.
A grain does not fill a sieve, but it helps its fellow.
I have sifted my flour and hung up the sieve.
O! my sister that depend on men; you are believing in water in a sieve.
An ass's tail will not make a sieve.
A new sieve is on a nail, then it gets under the bed.
One who believes everything he's told is as naive as one who fetches water with a sieve.
If the sieve is not shaken, his flour will not drop from it.
The sieve says to the needle; you have a hole in your head.
Better to lose the anchor than the whole ship.
The larger the ship, the larger the storm.
Where the ship goes the brig can go.
A great ship asks for deep waters.
When the steersmen are many the ship will sink.
All sails do not suit every ship.
It is no use waiting for your ship to come in unless you have sent one out.
When a ship is broken, the accident does not prevent others from sailing.
It is the voyage not the ship that matters.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Last ship, best ship.
There's many a ship lost within sight of harbour.
To a crazy ship every wind is contrary.
Do not judge of the ship from the land.
The ship does not go without the boat.
After the ship has sunk, everyone knows how she might have been saved.
A man without prudence is a ship without an anchor.
A ship and a woman are ever repairing.
Little leaks sink the ship.
Better on the heath with an old cart that at sea in a new ship.
A man without money is like a ship without sails.
Rejoice in little, shun what is extreme; the ship rides safest in a little stream.
He would sink a ship freighted with crucifixes.
Overseas, a cow a quarter of kopeck, but a rouble to ship.
Two captains will sink the ship.
A ship with two captains sinks.
Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny-worth of tar.
A ship cloaks in order to attack.
To die defending his ship is the hope of every klingon.
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar.
Too many captains the ship rolls.
Why jump in the water before the ship turns over.
Don't build a new ship out of old wood.
The water that a ship sails on is the same water that swallows it up.
Courage without conduct is like a ship without ballast.
The ship that will not obey the helm will have to obey the rocks.
Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny of tar.
Judge not of a ship as she lies on the stocks.
When the helm is gone the ship will soon be wrecked.
Better in an old carriage than in a new ship.
Better lose the anchor than the whole ship.
Many grains of sand will sink a ship.
Do not ship all in one bottom.
To act in anger is like tying up a ship in a storm.
A little leak will sink a great ship.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
He that has shipped the devil must make the best of him.
When the sea is calm, every ship has a good captain.
Don't quote your proverb 'til you bring your ship to port.
Faith is salvation, not the wood of a ship.
A horse without spurs is like a ship without a rudder.
A ship on the beach is a lighthouse to the sea.
From the boat we get to the ship.
In calm water every ship has a good captain.
Big voyage for a big ship.
Overseas, a cow costs a quarter of kopeck, but it will cost a rouble to ship it here.
With talking the cheese ship won't move.
He who has shipped the devil, must carry him over the sound.
Trust not your all in one ship.
Either a ship or a tuft of feathers.
He who cannot even manage a yacht asks for a ship of burthen!
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'pworth of tar.
It's not the towering sail, but the unseen wind that moves the ship.
A ship often sank beside the harbour.
Marrying off a daughter is like loading cargo on a ship.
A small hole can sink a big ship.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
Asking questions is not silly.
Ask a silly question and you get a silly answer.
A handsome woman is either silly or vain.
A silly daughter teaches her mother how to bear children.
Silly toad: planning a meal of goose!
Ask a silly question and you get a silly answer.
It's a silly pack that may not pay the custom.
It is a silly flock where the yow bears the bell.
Young folk, silly folk; old folk, cold folk.
The first drink makes you a frisky gazelle, the second an impetuous zebra, the third a roaring lion, and with the fourth you become a silly donkey.
Silly sheep, where one goes, all go.
One simple maxim is often worth more than two good friends.
Words of wisdom comes out of simple people mouths.
Unless a man is simple, he cannot recognize God, the simple one.
The casket opened simple.
The casket opened in a simple way.
Listening looks easy, but it's not that simple. Every head is a world.
God is the friend of both the simple guy and the leper.
There are simple remedies for sausages that are too long.
The simple man's the begger's brother.
From a simple spark there will often be produced a great conflagration.
Keep it simple, stupid. (KISS)
Women love simple things, like men.
All riches are multiplied by the simple process of sharing them where they may serve others.
Its so simple, it must be right.
When a woman is not singing, she is not working much either.
Even the sharpest ear cannot hear an ant singing.
Loving and singing are not to be forced.
Loving and singing are two things that should not be forced.
Three things that can't be taught: generosity, poetry and a singing voice.
If a caged bird isn't singing for love, it's singing in a rage.
Conversation shortens the distance, singing lightens the load.
One searches for someone else's donkey while singing songs.
Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come.
If you make songs about yourself, you can't blame other people for singing them.
He who starts singing too high will never finish the song.
Money doesn't come from singing.
Tie the burden securely and go off singing.
The man with a beautiful wife is always singing, the one with little money is always counting.
Singing "Alelulia"everywwhere does not prove piety.
It ends quickly like the hen's singing.
Out of sight, out of heart.
Out of sight, out of mind.
A man profits more by the sight of an idiot than by the orations of the learned.
There's many a ship lost within sight of harbour.
No-one is ever poor who has the sight of his eyes and the use of his feet.
You cannot discover new oceans unless you have the courage to lose sight of the shore.
It is in vain to lay a net in sight of the birds.
Men fear danger, women only the sight of it.
The sight of books removes sorrow from the heart.
When your finger is in pain, your sight is not lazy.
Even if you hide yourself from the world, don't lose sight of your real nature.
To enjoy a grander sight, climb to a greater height.
Once bitten by a snake, he is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope.
The sight of books removes sorrows from the heart.
The most horrible sight on earth cannot put out the eye.
I am just as good as you are, and a damned sight better.
Sight goes before hearsay.
He must have keen eyes that would know a maid at sight.
Absence is a foe to love; out of sight out of mind.
We carry our neighbours' failings in sight; we throw our own crimes over our shoulders.
Out of sight, out of langer.
Who is out of sight is out of mind.
He who hasn't seen mountains and castles is amazed by the sight of an oven.
Out of sight... Out of mind.
Each stain comes to sight on a horse that is white.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Do you believe in love at the first sight or shall I walk past you again?
A big crowd, but not a human being in sight.
Out of sight,out of hearth.
If the peasant doesn't hear the thunder he won't make the sign of the cross.
Changing one's mind is more often a sign of prudence than of ignorance.
Clouds are the sign of rain.
Saying salaam is a sign of true faith.
Clouds do not always mean rain, but smoke is a sure sign of fire.
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you.
Never write what you dare not sign.
Silence is the sign of approval.
Gray hair is a sign of age, not of wisdom.
Don't sign a paper without reading it, or drink water without seeing it.
Drink nothing with out seeing it; sign nothing without reading it.
The rainbow is a sign from Him who is in all things.
Control of mental conduct, not skill, is the sign of a matured samurai.
Nobody's family can hang out the sign, "Nothing the matter here.
Migration is a sign of protect.
A sure sign of age is loneliness.
The most manifest sign of wisdom is a continual cheerfulness.
Silence is the sign of agreement.
A long tongue is a sign of a short hand.
The sign invites you in, but your money redeem you out.
Giving what one does not possess is always a sign of charity.
When birds aren't making a mess it's a sign that it's been a bad year.
Good wine needs no sign.
Let the dogs bark; it's a sign that we are galloping ahead.
To change one's mind is rather a sign of prudence than ignorance.
Spilled wine is a sign of happiness, but break the bed and all will have long faces.
Over no home can the sign be hung: There is no trouble here.
Where there is no grain, this is a sign of vengeance turned towards a city. Where there are no reeds, it is the worst of all poverty.
It is a sign of weakness just to let things happen.
If you have no enemies it's a sign fortune has forgot you.
Handsome cats and fat dung heaps are the sign of a good farmer.
If love is a sickness, patience is the remedy.
Keep your sickness until friday and don't fast.
Away with thee, sickness, to where they make a good pillow for thee.
Every sickness begins in the stomach.
Annoy your doctor and sickness comes in laughing.
The sickness of the body is the cure of the mind.
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
There is an herb for every kind of sickness but not for death.
Sickness comes on horseback, but goes away on foot.
The superior doctor prevents sickness; The mediocre doctor attends to impending sickness; The inferior doctor treats actual sickness.
If you have no time to take care of your sickness, you get time to die.
Sickness is a thing of the spirit.
Happy is the man without sickness. Rich is the man with no debts.
Sickness comes in haste, and goes at leisure.
Bathe early every day and sickness will avoid you.
It is all one whether you die of sickness or of love.
Sickness tells us what we are.
What you give for the cause of charity in health is gold; what you give in sickness is silver; what you give after death is lead.
During sickness, you recognize the value of good health.
The weaker the patient is, the sooner the sickness will end.
Gout is the sickness of the rich.
Sickness, if it doesn't kill, it purifies.
An imaginary sickness is worse than a real one.
Sickness comes in like a horse and leaves like a snail.
In time of sickness man is ever on his best behaviour.
Sickness shows us what we are.
The chamber of sickness is the chapel of devotion.
Sickness soaks the purse.
In time of sickness the soul collects itself anew.
Sickness comes uninvited--no need to bespeak it.
It is not good for all our wishes to be filled; through sickness we recognize the value of health; through evil, the value of good; through hunger, the value of food; through exertion, the value of rest.
Sickness is a visit by God.
Old age is sickness of itself.
Sickness shows us what we are.
Had he not been visited by sickness, he would have perished utterly.
If you are not going to bite, don't show your teeth.
Poverty is not a crime, but it's better not to show it.
Show me a poor man, I will show you a flatterer.
The rainbow would be even more beautiful if the show was not for free.
When you show the moon to a child, it sees only your finger.
He who has a fever is not shown to the fire.
The prickly branches of the palm tree do not show preference even to friends.
The greater your troubles, the greater is your opportunity to show yourself a worthy person.
You can't be the head of a family unless you show yourself both stupid and deaf.
Be not deceived with the first appearance of things, for show is not substance.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
The show must go on.
Life will show you what you did not know.
Show the fatted calf, but not the thing that fattened him.
Many will show you the way once your cart has overturned.
When herring mauger him bone show.
Show me your wife and I will tell you what kind of a husband she has.
Who fails to show restraint in their youth, will be miserable in their old age.
Consideration should be shown to a novice.
When we show our respect for other living things, they respond with respect for us.
Tell me and I'll forget. Show me, and I may not remember. Involve me, and I'll understand.
To show one's fist to a blind man is neither a sin nor a virtue.
Only an enemy without honor refuses to show himself in battle.
By getting angry, you show you are wrong.
Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends.
Speak and the man shall be shown.
Growl not at guests, nor drive them from the gate but show thyself gentle to the poor.
De higher de monkey climb, de more he does show he tail.
The ram that is shown around is not fat.
Don't show me the palm-tree, show me the dates.
A person's cleverness is not shown by how many words he utters at once but how he utters them.
The blind man would like to show the way to others.
Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends.
We have never seen the earth show her teeth.
He that fights for a ne'er-do-well has nothing to show for it except a head covered in earth and grime.
The show must go on.
Durability is better than show.
Show me, and I may not remember.
Laugh and show your ignorance.
A king's face should show grace.
Many men are like clocks that show one hour and strike another.
Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief.
People show their character by what they laugh at.
Do not show your teeth until you can bite.
It is not easy to show the way to a blind man.
It will soon show which milk will yield a good curd.
Peculiar people may show up anywhere.
A child who has no mother will not have scars to show on his back.
Our elders quote the cock as saying that "it would not be good if one becomes the only person in the world, and that is why they crow every morning to show their number".
Don't be friends with the dog, for the tail will show it.
If you give your goods without a pledge, you show little inventiveness.
If you don't want anyone to take your place, don't ever show that you're frightened.
If you can't bite, don't show your teeth.
Do not show a stick to a dog that has been beaten.
If you can't bite, better not show your teeth.
All do not bite that show their teeth.
When apes climb high, they show their naked rumps.
Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief.
Don't show your teeth if you can't bite.
Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief.
Many will show the way after the carriage has overturned.
The dog that is going to bite does not show its teeth.
Never show the truth naked -- just in its shirt.
He that does not show himself is overlooked.
He does not show a decent quality even over a good dinner.
The costliest clock can show only sixty minutes in every hour.
Love this Earth as if you won't be here tomorrow show reverence for your Garden as if you will be here forever.
It's good to be clever, but not to show it.
Show me your horse and I will tell you what you are.
The mirror will show you whatever you show it.
Tell me, I'll forget. Show me, I may remember. But involve me, and I'll understand.
When you show the moon to a child, it sees only your finger.
Our friends are our mirrors and show us ourselves.
Priests and road signs show you the way but don't go with you.
He who is bad at giving a lodging is good at show the road.
You don't show a fool a job half done.
If you show a rich man kindness, you gain nothing.
The ram that is shown around is not fat.
Show her the rudder, but don't steer her boat.
One door is shut, but a thousand are open.
Even a fish wouldn't get into trouble if it kept its mouth shut.
He who keeps his mouth shut, dies without confession.
At an auction keep your mouth shut.
The rain can only drown the mud-rabbit if he hasn't the wits to keep his mouth shut.
A book tightly shut is but a block of paper.
Never miss a good chance to shut up.
Perhaps no one has a finer command of a language than he who keeps his mouth shut.
Put up or shut up.
A wise head keeps a shut mouth.
Shut your door, and you will make your neighbour good.
A shut mouth catches no flies.
No pear falls into a shut mouth.
Mouth shut and eyes open.
An oven whose door does not shut does not bake its loaves.
It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted.
Before you married keep you' two eye open; after you married, shut one.
He who keeps his mouth shut doesn't get any flies to eat.
Where one door is shut another opens.
The coward shoots with shut eyes.
After the meal, one has to be still and shut the eyes for a while in the gloom.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
You can shut the door on a thief, but you can do nothing about a liar.
Every door may be shut but death's door.
Men shut their doors against the setting sun.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
Always shut the gate after the horse is out.
Observe with the eyes; listen with the ears; shut the mouth.
Away goes the devil if he finds the door shut against him.
If you keep your mouth shut, you won't put your foot in it.
It is a sin against hospitality to open the doors and shut up the countenance.
A book that remains shut, is but a block.
You may force a man to shut his eyes, but not to sleep.
You may shut your doors against a thief, but not against a liar.
A shut mouth keeps me out of strife.
Shut your mouth and you'll catch no flies.
No flies get into a shut mouth.
Every door may be shut but death's door.
Not all are asleep who have their eyes shut.
No flies get into a shut mouth.
Better to be shot with a crossbow than rejected by a window slammed shut.
If one has nothing to answer, it is best to shut up.
Many open a door to shut a window.
Don't shut the barn door after the horse is stolen.
No flies get into a shut mouth.
When the steed is stolen, you shut the stable door.
The mouth and the purse, shut.
When the devil finds the door shut he goes away.
Who could shut up folks' expression and language?
Shut up Topias the doctor knows better that you ain't dead.
It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted.
A book, tight shut, is but a block of paper.
If you are rich, always shut your door.
Many a fool might pass for a wise man if he would only keep his mouth shut.
Let the world shout, who can shut the world's mouth.
A door must be either shut or open.
When the devil finds the door shut he goes away.
A door must be either shut or open.
Although a monkey be dressed in silk, she is still a monkey.
Although the monkey might dress in silk, monkey it still is.
Silk is cut best with old scissors.
With patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
You cannot make a silk purse of a sow's ear.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
A silk dress doesn't mean clean undergarments.
In a garment made of silk there are no fleas.
A monkey remains a monkey, though dressed in silk.
To get silk from a stone.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
Patience is power; with time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Patience and the mulberry leaf become a silk robe.
With time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Though the fox wear silk, he is still a fox.
Dignity does not consist in a silk dress.
A broken leg is not healed by a silk stocking.
Ye canna mak a silk purse out o' a sow's lug.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
If you dress in gold or silk, you are still the same green grocer.
Silk and velvet put out the kitchen fire.
Put silk on a goat, and it's still a goat.
If you put a silk dress on a goat, he is a goat still.
If you put a silk suit on a goat it is still a goat.
Ye cannot make a silk purse of a sows lug.
Go to Catania for beautiful silk jackets.
You cannot make a silk purse from a sow's ear.
An ape's an ape, a varlet's a varlet, though they be clad in silk and scarlet.
On the belly there is silk, but in the belly - just a click.
A monkey, even dressed in silk is still a monkey.
Though the fox wear silk, he is still a fox.
He who has daughters to marry, let him give them silk to spin.
A husband should not talk of pretty girls in front of his wife.
Your woman should be in the house or in the grave.
He who wants to eat honey should endure the stings.
A liar should have a good memory.
One should rise to a person who sees you sitting.
What you say when you're drunk should have been thought about beforehand.
If a man would live in peace, he should be blind, deaf, and dumb.
It's better that it should make you sick than that you don't eat it at all.
If you fall in love let her be a beauty; if you should steal, let it be a camel.
A cow that has no tail should not try to chase away flies.
He who has not yet reached the opposite shore should not make fun of him who is drowning.
A diplomat should be yielding and supple as a creeper that can be bent but not broken.
If something that was going to chop off your head only knocked off your cap, you should be grateful.
The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it.
Why should I shave when God doesn't?
Children should be seen and not heard.
Something done at the wrong time should be regarded as not done.
Keep five yards from a carriage, ten yards from a horse, and a hundred yards from an elephant; but the distance one should keep from a wicked man cannot be measured.
If the hen had not cackled, we should not know she had laid an egg.
Having drunk the country's water, one should obey the country's laws.
A man with trousers that are too short should wear long suspenders.
You should discuss over a dog's hide when it concerns your interest.
Having two ears and one tongue, we should listen twice as much as we speak.
The glory of ancestors should not prevent a man winning glory for himself.
He that sleeps with a dog, should bear its fleas.
A foreseen disaster should not kill the handicapped.
Affairs of the home should not be discussed in the public square.
Only men with thick lips should smoke a cigar.
An absent person should have his excuse.
One should do nothing with a false heart.
One should never rub bottoms with a porcupine.
He who upsets something should know how to put it back again.
Who cares about every little feather should not make the bed.
He who mocks the cripple should be straight himself.
If someone transports dung and does not eat it, it should not be concluded that he is an honest person.
You should have done it on the wedding night, you fool.
A foreigner should be well-behaved.
He who has no job should search for a camel.
When your neighbor's horse falls into a pit, you should not rejoice at it, for your own child may fall into it too.
The bull should be taken by the horns, a man at his word.
He who rides a camel should not be afraid of dogs.
If the fight is tomorrow, then why should you clench your fist today?
Eggs should not fight stones.
Who picks a tool unsuited to a task should not complain if it does no more than cut the hand that holds it.
Everyone should contribute when collection is made.
A man with a sour face should not open a shop.
The old should be treated with due respect. Children should be treated with gentleness.
One should be just as careful in choosing one's pleasures as in avoiding calamities.
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.
A heavy load should be borne together as well as a light load.
The butcher should not be trusted that has missing neighbors.
Between brother and brother, accounts should be square.
The cock that loses its pace time of cockadoodle should be dressed otherwise it will misguide you.
People who drink to drown their sorrows, should be told that sorrow knows how to swim.
Those who have not crossed the river yet should not laugh at those who are drowning.
He who is not happy with the position of the sun should climb and change it.
If you are building something and a nail breaks, should you stop building altogether, or should you change the nail?
People should not talk while they are eating or pepper may go down the wrong way.
Those whose palm-kernels were cracked for them by a benevolent spirit should not forget to be humble.
Those who get their kola nut cracked by the spirit should should not forget to be humble.
If the fish comes out of the river to tell you that the crocodile has one eye, you should believe it.
A benevolent man should allow a few faults in himself to keeps his friends in countenance.
Our generosity should never exceed our abilities.
The start of a journey should never be mistaken for success.
A man's first care should be to avoid the reproaches of his own heart, his next to escape the censures of the world.
Blind men should not judge of colours.
The cobbler should stick to his last.
When you mention 'dog,' you should get a stick.
He who lives in a glass house should not throw stones.
Things never go so well that someone should have no fear, nor so bad that someone should have no hope.
He who spends more than he should Shall not have to spend when he would.
A fish should swim thrice: in water, in sauce, and in wine.
What should a cow do with a nutmeg?
He who lives in a glass house should be the last to throw stones.
One should be born either a king or a fool.
It is too much to expect of a cat that she should sit by the milk and not lap it.
Advice should precede the act.
Judges should have two ears, both alike.
Loving and singing are two things that should not be forced.
Nothing should be done in a hurry except catching fleas.
Truth should not always be revealed.
Who is well seated should not budge.
A guest should be blind in another man's house.
The bird that can sing and won't sing should be made to sing.
The eye should be blind in the home of another.
If God should listen to rooks, he should send a plague to horses.
A young man should not marry yet, an old man not at all.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue; to the end we should hear and see more than we speak.
Beauty is the sister of idleness and the mother of luxury.
Suspicion is the sister of the wrong.
Good health is the sister of beauty.
Asking is the sister of knowing.
The little hemlock is sister to the great hemlock.
The horns of the sister are horns of gold; the horns of the wife are true horns.
When a needle sees a dagger, she cries "O sister!”.
Never have sex with the bosses sister.
Knowledge is the sister of folly.
O! my sister that depend on men; you are believing in water in a sieve.
Better to have something yourself, than to beg of your sister.
Sister Nicola said: Don't put the pasta basket in the water until it's boiling.
Beauty's sister is vanity, and its daughter lust.
See how the boy is with his sister and the other ones of his home lodge and you can know how the man will be with your daughter.
The brother or sister who does not respect the traditions of the elders will not be allowed to eat with the elders.
A husband wants to have a healthy wife; a brother wants to have a rich sister.
While they are in the valley he treats her as his wife, while on the hill he treats her as his sister.
Nights of pleasure are short.
Lies legs are short.
Life is short and time is swift.
It's better not to poke a jaguar with a short staff.
A man with trousers that are too short should wear long suspenders.
While the blanket is short, learn to bend.
Happy hours are very short.
An inch too short is as bad as an ell.
'tis well that wicked cows have short horns.
Life is short; but it barely takes a second to smile.
Hold short services for minor Gods.
Rising early makes the road short.
If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work.
The way of a liar is short.
Even when months and days are long, life is short.
Even the elephant can fan off flies with its short tail.
Long visits bring short compliments.
An insult is but a short garment: it reveals the one who wears it.
The day of happiness is short.
The rope of a lie is short.
Where the lion's skin falls short, borrow of the fox.
Politeness travels on short fares.
Short reckonings make long friends.
Never poke a jaguar with a short stick.
Much laugher, short wisdom.
The scent of every flower is short lived.
Lent, which seems so long, is short at other men's tables.
One's own spurs and another's horse make the miles short.
Who wishes for a short Lent let him contract debts to be paid at Easter.
When the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox.
Long tongue - short hands.
One short step lengthens life.
Short love, long sighs.
Women have long skirts and short minds.
Women have got long hair and short sense.
Long skirts carry dust, but short skirts carry away souls.
A short man carry a hunchback man.
Life is so short we must move very slowly.
Them short fe singer when dem put peacock in a choir.
February may be short but it's the worst month.
Anger is a short madness.
Good company makes short miles.
Hired horses make short miles.
Short reckonings make long friends.
A day is long, but a lifetime is short.
The night's too short to warrant marrying poor.
A long tongue betokens a short hand.
A proverb is a short sentence based on long experience.
Have a bill to pay at Easter, and your Lent will be short.
A hungry stomach makes a short prayer.
Life is short and full of blisters.
When a very short man causes the market to break up in a big fight, bystanders ask him to stand up so that they can see how short he really is.
Short lived pleasure is the parent of pain.
A short temper is a disadvantage.
To go beyond is as bad as to fall short.
Cursed cows have short horns.
From the lowly perspective of a dog's eyes, everyone looks short.
Going beyond is as bad as falling short.
Fortune has a fickle heart and a short memory.
It's not that the well is too deep, but rather the rope is too short.
The tortoise said it wants to box, but its hand is too short.
The monkey is a good boxer, but his hands are short.
A short rope ties nothing.
A short man is not a boy.
A short person touches where he can reach.
A sharp stomach makes short devotion.
Wide lugs an a short tongue is best.
Wide ears and short tongue are the best.
A lie has short legs.
Anger is a short madness.
God bless him who pays visits -- short visits.
A cursed cur should be short tied.
A little dog, a cow without horns, and a short man, are generally proud.
A short rest is always good.
Art is long and life is short.
Sparrows should not dance with cranes, their legs are too short.
No one is so tall that he never needs to stretch, and no one is so short that he never needs to stoop.
A borrowed horse and your own spurs make short miles.
Short flax makes long thread.
Better make a short circuit than to wet your hose.
Life at court is often a short cut to hell.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about.
The wise man has long ears and a short tongue.
Long foretold, long last; short notice, soon past.
A lie has short legs.
A long tongue betokens a short hand.
The tall one wouldn't bend; the short one wouldn't stretch and the kiss was lost.
A mischievous dog must be tied short.
Crabs dig holes according to the size of their shells.
Eating while seated makes one of large size; eating while standing makes one strong.
Choose the stone by the size of the frog.
The strength of a man can't be determined by is size.
If wisdom is measured by the size of the beard then the goat is a philosopher king.
Though your enemy is the size of an ant, look upon him as an elephant.
Whoever digs a pit for his neighbor should dig it his own size.
The reputation of a man is like his shadow; it sometimes follows and sometimes precedes him, it is sometimes longer and sometimes shorter than his natural size.
Judge of the statue of Hercules by the size of the foot.
What counts is not necessarily the size of the dog in the fight - it's the size of the fight in the dog.
Eating while seated makes one of large size.
Words are silver, silence is gold.
Under the mountains is silver and gold, But under the night sky, hunger and cold.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Silence is golden, speech is silver.
A woman is like the moon-some nights it is silver others gold.
All my goods are of silver and gold, even my copper kettle, says the boaster.
A crucible for silver and a furnace for gold, but Allah tests the heart.
If speech is of silver, silence is golden.
A silver hammer can open an iron gate.
Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night.
The sky does not rain gold or silver.
Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.
Talking is silver, silence is gold.
Make a silver bridge for a flying enemy.
Sleep on a bed of silver and dream of gold.
All that glitters is not gold, nor all that sparkles silver.
A good friend is better than silver and gold.
For a flying enemy make a silver bridge.
The silver is become dross.
Crime leaves a trail like a water beetle; like a snail, it leaves its silver track; like a horse-mango, it leaves its smell.
To be without silver is better than to be without honor.
Build with silver and cover with gold.
Speech is silver, silence is golden.
He that has no silver in his purse, should have silver on his tongue.
All that shines is not silver.
Many a cloud has a silver lining.
Speech is silver, but silence is golden.
Silver and gold are all men's dears.
He who sleeps in a silver bed has golden dreams.
Those who fight with silver spears are sure of their victory.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
He that fights with silver arms is sure to overcome.
To speak is silver, to keep silent is gold.
Bonie silver is soon spendit.
It is weil warit they have sorrow, that buyes it with their silver.
One for sorrow, two for joy, three for a girl, four for a boy, five for silver, six for gold, and seven for a secret that must never be told.
Not all that shines is gold, nor all that glows is silver.
A silver hammer breaks an iron door.
Better to have a friend on the road than gold and silver in your purse.
Deprive a mirror of its silver and even the czar won't see his face.
Make a bridge of silver for the flying enemy.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
Fight with silver spears, and you will overcome everything.
He who destroys houses destroys silver. He who destroys a house destroys gold.
What starts with a needle usually ends with a silver bowl.
Spoken word silver, unspoken gold.
Talking is silver, silence is golden.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
There is no silver here three hundred taels.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Speaking is silver, silence is gold.
There is no silver here: three hundred taels.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Silence is gold, talking is silver.
A brave man will face a situation no matter how dreadful.
When you begin to understand the situation, you know you must have been ill-informed.
To describe a person who has just gotten out from a precarious situation just to get into another precarious situation.
In a very critical situation as the egg will soon tip-over and fall.
Taking advantage of a murky/confusing situation.
You will never lose a battle if you know your own situation as well as that of the enemy.
A resourceful man knows to avoid a disadvantageous situation close at hand.
A cock says it's because of the situation it is faced with that it has its knees in the opposite direction.
To forgive a duke his tyranny alters not the total situation.
In a no-win situation where all the possible solutions present has terrible consequences.
All skill is in vain when an angel pees in the touchhole of your musket.
Skill or fortune will efface the spots.
Practice gives skill.
A spacious ground is the right place to demonstrate one's skill in wrestling.
Skill is not a heavy load to carry.
Skill and assurance form an invincible combination.
If the lion's skill will not do, we must sew on that of the fox.
Control of mental conduct, not skill, is the sign of a matured samurai.
The skill of using a mortar and pestle never leaves one.
Listening is the most difficult skill to learn and the most important to have.
Talent without skill is like a desert without an oasis.
Old age and treachery will overcome youth and skill.
There is a skill in gruel making.
If skill could be gained by watching, every dog would become a butcher.
Skill is only a rumour, until it reaches the muscle.
To lie and eat fish demand a lot of skill.
If skill could be gained by watching, every dog would become a butcher.
It needs more skill than I can tell to play the second fiddle well.
You inherit from the dead, not from the sick.
If the hyena eats the sick man, he will eat the whole one.
Mullah is sick when poor dies.
Whiskey when you're sick makes you well; whiskey makes you sick when you're well.
The sick man is free to say all.
He wanted to cure a healthy pig and ended up with a sick one.
Counsel is as welcome to him as a shoulder of mutton to a sick horse.
Sick people are like kings.
If you sit at a crossroads, you will get sick.
A sick person is a prisoner.
Better to struggle with a sick jackass than carry the wood by yourself.
Cut of the sick part while it is still small.
Visitors' footfalls are like medicine; they heal the sick.
To a physician a sick man is a garden.
The sick man is the garden of the physicians.
It may smell like a melon, but is it going to make you sick?
The first step to health is to know that we are sick.
That sick man is not to be pitied who has his cure in his sleeve.
A man cannot be a good physician if he has never been sick himself.
God cures the sick, and the doctor gets the money.
The sick man is vexed with the flies on the wall.
Sometimes the body becomes healthy by being very sick.
If you are sick, think about your life; if you are better, think about your gold.
When a liar speaks the truth, he is sick.
If you want to give a sick man medicine, let him first be really ill -- so that he can see how well the medicine works.
The healthy can't pretend to be sick nor can the sick pretend to be healthy.
No one drinks medicine on behalf of a sick person.
He that finds something before it is lost, will die before he is sick.
Fall sick, and you will see who is your friend and who not.
If two doctors visit a sick man, the sexton rings the bells.
A sick man sleeps, but not a debtor.
Time cures the sick man, not the ointment.
Tobacco hic,/ Will make a man well if he be sick.
If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get sick.
Who eats too much, will then be sick.
My uncle is sick, but the highway is green.
Sick people have no friends.
A sick person is not asked for porridje.
You won't get sick if you have plenty of work.
Who eats too much, will then be sick.
Even a healer's lies are a big relief to a sick person.
It is easy for a man in health to preach patience to the sick.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick.
Better a sick body than an ignorant mind.
When a poor man eats a chicken, one or the other is sick.
He that eats till he is sick must fast till he is well.
They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.
He who is sick will not refuse medicine.
The doctor can come and go, but he who is sick remains so.
When you're sick, tell everyone.
Having health without wealth is being half sick.
The man without money seems half sick.
It's a bad sign when the sick person tosses and turns in bed.
Being overweight is being halfway sick.
Fever sustains the sick.
Not all the red-faced are drunkards nor all the yellow-faced sick.
When a poor man eats a chicken, one or the other is sick.
The devil was sick, the Devil a saint would be; the Devil was well, the devil a saint was he.
One can get sick of cake, but never of bread.
He who talks without thinking dies without getting sick.
The fly is small, but it is big enough to make one sick.
Too much prudishness makes the lover sick.
When the Devil was sick the Devil a monk would be, When the Devil got well, the devil a monk was he.
He that eats till he is sick must fast till he is well.
A sick mind cannot endure any harshness.
When in good health we easily give good advice to the sick.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
One should not stand at the foot of a sick person's bed, because that place is reserved for the guardian angel.
No man is a good physician who has never been sick.
The goat slaughtered for a man who is sick now.
When the head is sick the whole body is sick.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick.
Those who know how to swim are the ones who sink.
When the steersmen are many the ship will sink.
A genuine ruby wont sink and disappear in mud.
It is the fate of the coconut husk to float, for the stone to sink.
Water can float a boat or sink it.
As soon as stones can swim, leaves will sink.
Loose lips sink ships.
He that swims in sin will sink in sorrow.
Walls sink and dunghills rise.
After the ship has sunk, everyone knows how she might have been saved.
I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years.
Little leaks sink the ship.
He would sink a ship freighted with crucifixes.
Two captains will sink the ship.
Either you sink or you swim.
When you try to stay on the surface of the water, you sink; but when you try to sink, you float.
Smash the pots and sink the boats.
Loose lips sink ships.
Many grains of sand will sink a ship.
A little leak will sink a great ship.
Sow not money on the sea, lest it sink.
He said: "Woe!" and the boat sank with him. He said: "Alas!" and the rudder broke. The young man said: "Ah god!" and the boat reached its destination.
A small hole can sink a big ship.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
God lets man sink but not be drowned.
These words won't become a loose skirt for Fati.
What itches in the daughter's skirt, itches also in her mother's.
My skirt with tears is always wet: I have forgotten to forget.
A long skirt wraps around the leg, a long tongue wraps around the head.
If you don't lift the skirt of a bride you don't know what she wears under it.
A bad dancer blames the hem of her skirt.
A poor dancer will be disturbed even by the hem of her skirt.
If you want to fight fire, you don't wear a skirt made of dry grass.
A long skirt wraps around the leg, a long tongue wraps around the head.
The reverse side also has a reverse side.
Courtesy on one side can never last long.
A dog by your side is better than a brother miles away.
Let what is on this side of the bank be washed out by the flood, and what is on that side of the bank be carried away by the wind.
Courtesy that is all on one side cannot last long.
The moon and the stars are not above us, the earth is on the other side of our feet.
Until the lion tells his side of the story, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
It's awful, I hate it” is hardly the other side of "That is beautiful and I loved it.”.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
She is fond of him–on the side where the pocket hangs.
Hear the other side, and believe little.
Seldom lies the dell dead by the dyke side.
With fortune on your side you can sow salt and harvest grass.
Men look more like their uncles on the mother's side.
When bull ole him feed a fence side.
A story is only half told if there is only one side presented.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back or a fool from any side.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
Couldn't hit the broad side of the barn.
An udara fruit that falls on the side of the road is asking to be eaten.
A friend is someone who walks by your side.
The first thing one should own is a home; and it is the last thing one should sell; for a home is ones tomb this side of heaven.
In sweet converse call the righteous to thy side, learn a healing song while thou livest.
Look on the bright side.
One never falls but on the side toward which one leans.
His opinions are like water in the bottom of a canoe, going from side to side.
Every who streches a skin on a drum, pulls the skin own his own side.
A curious woman is capable of turning around the rainbow just to see what is on the other side.
Watch the fire burn on the other side of the river.
Make sure you leave some fat for the other side.
A fu' sack will tak a clout o' the side.
The grass may be greener on the other side, but it is just as difficult to cut.
Courtesy on one side only never lasts for long.
It makes a difference if the pope is on your side.
The other side of the road always looks cleanest.
It is best to be on the safe side.
The bread never falls but on its buttered side.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back, or a fool from any side.
Buttered bread always falls dry side up.
God did not create woman from man's head, that he should command her, nor from his feet, that she should be his slave, but rather from his side, that she should be near his heart.
He fell to the other side of the horse.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
Friendship stands not in One side.
A full seck will take a clout on the side.
It's always good to have an old man at a little boy's side.
We shall hear, we are on the side towards which the wind blows.
Never approach a goat from the front, a horse from behind, and a fool from either side.
He has the greatest blind side who thinks he has none.
God is on the side of the strongest battalions.
A Montgomery division: all on one side, nothing on the other.
Quarrels do not last long if the wrong is only on one side.
The highway is always shorter than the unknown side roads.
The bread never falls but on its buttered side.
A suspicious mind sees everything on the dark side.
One who plants grapes by the road side, and one who marries a pretty woman, share the same problem.
God is on the side of the strongest battalions. (Kin 1955, p. 255)
The pot reproaching the kettle, the side of both is black.
You are sharp on one side like a knife.
A person who underneath the tall palm tree is best positioned to tell on which side the ripe head is.
Up one side and down the other.
The grass may be greener on the other side of the fence but you still have to mow it.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the Keystone Pipeline.
Fighting a wolf with a flex stalk - either side is afraid of the other.
It is best to be on the safe side.
Best to be on the safe side.
She'll keep her ain side o the hoose, an gang up an doun yours.
A friend is someone who walks by your side.
I know on which side my bread is buttered.
Beware of the goat from its front side, of the horse - from its back side, and the evil man - from any side.
Sitting is being crippled.
The man on his feet carries off the share of the man sitting down.
He's looking for the donkey while sitting on it.
Do not cut the bough you are sitting on.
A sitting crow starves.
It's better to be a cripple than always sitting down.
Sitting quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself.
Never do anything standing that you can do sitting, or anything sitting that you can do lying down.
The sun will shine on those who are standing, before it shines on those who are sitting.
From walking -- something; from sitting -- nothing.
When the fool knows when to be silent, he would be sitting among the wise.
Those sitting above can easily spit on those below.
Sitting securely in the saddle.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving with the Pope.
Sitting down beside the boxes.
Sitting with the hands in the hair.
What is hanging up, cannot be reached sitting down.
What an elder sees sitting; the young can't see standing.
The people sitting in the free theater seats are the first ones to boo.
The best dancer comes from the sitting lounge.
A good friend is someone who will bail you out of jail, but your best friend is the one sitting next to you saying "that was fucking awesome”.
Good listening does not mean sitting dumb.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving against the Pope.
O! You sitting, may God protect you from the evils of the comers.
The kind man feeds his cat before sitting down to dinner.
He who is sitting in the reeds, makes a whistle of his choice.
You shouldn't saw off the branch you're sitting on.
Footprints on the sands of time are not made by sitting down.
Sitting on the fence.
The child looks everywhere and often sees nought, the old man, sitting on the ground, sees everything.
'Tis as cheap sitting as standing.
There is a time to speak and a time to be silent.
If you've done good, stay silent; if good has been done to you, share to others.
Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum.
A silent mouth is sweet to hear.
The silent are often guilty.
If you want to annoy the devil stay silent.
Let the giver be silent and the receiver speak.
Where gold speaks every tongue is silent.
Laws are silent in time of war.
Cross the loud river but don't cross the silent one.
A wise woman has much to say and yet remains silent.
Sometimes you have to be silent in order to be heard it's easier to criticize than to do better.
A silent man is the best one to listen to.
An idiot is eloquent when he stays silent.
He who talks to a silent listener will soon stand naked.
If the defendant is silent the jury will think him guilty.
Beauty is eloquent even when silent.
The silent dog is always the first to bite.
When silent men speak they speak to the purpose.
A silent mouth never did any harm.
A silent mouth is melodious.
A silent mouth is musical.
Beware of silent dogs and still waters.
The fool passes for wise if he is silent.
Better be silent than speak ill.
Even a fool is thought wise if he keeps silent, and discerning if he holds his tongue.
Our parents taught us to speak and the world taught us to be silent.
When the fool knows when to be silent, he would be sitting among the wise.
To be silent is golden, to speak is silvern.
Listen with your ears, look with your eyes, but keep silent with your mouth.
He who does not fart lets out silent ones.
Speak what needs to be said, or stay silent.
A silent woman is a good woman.
Were fools silent, they would pass for wise.
A silent man is not a conquered man.
When money speaks the truth is silent.
When gold speaks, everything else is silent.
You needn't be afraid of a barking dog, but you should be afraid of a silent dog.
A good listener is a silent flatterer.
Don't let anyone know about your silent [secret] money.
If they speak, they are wind; if they are silent, they are gourds.
Ten who shout obtain more than ten who remains silent.
When an elder speaks, be silent and listen.
It is the still and silent sea that drowns a man.
I saw and was silent, I saw and pondered, I listened to the speech of men.
Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum.
One who keeps silent, endures.
Poor is the person who does not know when he has had enough. He who talks to a silent listener will soon stand naked.
Silent worms dig holes in the walls.
When women increase in wealth, they are silent. But when they fall into trouble, the whole world gets to know.
It is the calm and silent water that drowns a man.
The greatest crime in a desert is to find water and keep silent about it.
Shame to the house where the hen crows and the cock is silent.
A human learns how to talk early, but how to keep silent late.
Let him who gives nothing be silent, and him who receives speak.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
When money speaks the world is silent.
Beware of a silent dog and still water.
Look and keep silent, and if you are eating meat, tell the world it's fish.
Charity is a silent prayer.
If a man's mouth were silent, then another part would speak.
A fool is like all other men as long as he remains silent.
The silent man is most trusted.
Deep rivers move with silent majesty, shallow brooks are noisy.
Fools are like other folks as long as they are silent.
Little sorrows are loud, great ones silent.
You may speak with your gold and make other tongues silent.
Silent tongue and hempen heart often go together.
Beware of a silent dog and still water.
Who receives, should thank; who gives, should be silent.
When the poor man is burried, the large bell of the parish is silent.
Complete idiot who can keep silent, to a wise man is similar.
It is a sorry house where the hens crow and the cock is silent.
He who knows nothing knows enough, if he knows how to be silent.
He keeps silent, like a deaf pig in the wheat-field.
Small sorrows speak; great ones are silent.
To speak is silver, to keep silent is gold.
Waves will rise on silent water.
Beauty is silent eloquence.
The fool who is silent passes for wise.
The belly is like a judge that is silent yet still asks questions.
When drums beat, laws are silent.
Discover not your silent money to anybody.
From a silent man, and a dog that does not bark, deliver us.
From a silent person remove your dwelling.
When coins rattle, philosophers are silent.
To have been silent never does harm, but to have spoken does.
To silence another, first be silent yourself.
Mockery is the flashing of slander.
It is easier to get a chicken back in the egg than to undo a slander.
Slander not the dead.
Treachery and slander are long lived.
Slander leaves a score behind it.
Slander expires at a good woman's door.
Slander is more deadly than weapons; weapons wound from close range, slander hurts from a distance.
Slander slays three persons: the speaker, the spoken to, and the spoken of.
Slander makes friends part.
People slander somebody even if they do not despise him.
Slander! slander! some of it always sticks.
Don't let your mouth accuse him; don't slander him; don't encourage violent retaliation against yourself.
Slander piles itself before the door of a widow.
Slander by the stream will be heard by the frogs.
He that praise publicly will slander privately.
It's like exchanging six for half a dozen.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
If one has to jump a stream and knows how wide it is, he will not jump. If he does not know how wide it is, he will jump, and six times out of ten he will make it.
When a girl is born it is like having six thieves invade the house.
If you would be rich in a year, you may be hanged in six months.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
Six men give a doctor less to do than one woman.
Fall six times, rise seven.
Fall six times, stand up seven.
A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Three, helping one another, bear the burden of six.
Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury.
Where six cooks are, there is nothing to eat.
Six hours sleep for a man, seven for a woman, and eight for a fool.
He who would be rich in a year gets hanged in six months.
Six feet of earth will make us all equal.
Six of one, and half a dozen of the other.
In a good word there are three winters' warmth; in one malicious word there is pain for six frosty months.
The new moon of March rules for six months.
To rise at six, eat at ten, sup at six, go to bed at ten, makes a man live years ten times ten.
He who wants to be rich in a year is hanged at six months' end.
Three men helping one another will do as much as six men singly.
He who stole (six coins) is hanged. He who stole (fifty coins) is praised.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
A fool may be known by six things anger, without cause speech, without profit change, without progress inquiry, without object putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Perfect Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance. (a.k.a The six P's)
Six of one and half a dozen of the other.
Where there are six cooks, there is nothing to eat.
Till age six, your son is your master; until ten he's your servant; until sixteen, a wonderful adviser; from then on, he's either your friend or your enemy.
One mother looks after six daughters, but six daughters do not look after one mother.
A single hand can not slaughter a cow.
You can't blame the axe for the noise made by the chicken you are about to slaughter.
He who is used to strangle, cannot slaughter.
Slaughter no more than you can well salt.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter a pig and you will be happy for a month; become a priest and you will be happy for the rest of your life.
He would slaughter a bug to drink its blood.
There is no butcher that does not slaughter.
A slaughter house is not without a little blood.
An animal's end is slaughter.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter.
Don't speak unless you can improve on the silence.
Silence is golden, speech is silver.
Silence is a brother of delight.
Love and let the world know, hate in silence.
Silence is more than just a lack of words.
Even silence speaks.
I grew up among wise men and found that there is nothing better for man than silence.
Silence is also speech.
If speech is of silver, silence is golden.
Silence is an attribute of the dead; he who is alive speaks.
Silence is the door of consent.
Silence makes irritation grow.
Silence surpasses speech.
The Potato grows in silence, The iron corrodes in silence.
The right answer to a fool is silence.
Silence is the sign of approval.
Wisdom consists of ten parts -- nine parts of silence and one part with few words.
Be silent, or say something better than silence.
You must keep quiet or say only things that improve silence.
In the young, silence is better than speech.
Either remain quiet, or say things that improve the silence.
Silence betokens consent.
You cannot write down a meaningful silence.
The virtue of silence is a great piece of knowledge.
Silence means consent.
Even silence is an answer.
He who cannot keep silence cannot speak.
Silence is sometimes the answer.
Sometimes silence is the proper answer.
Silence answers much.
It is good speaking that improves good silence.
The silence of the people is a warning for the king.
A judge and a stomach do their asking in silence.
There is no reply to the ignorant like keeping silence.
Truth is violated by a lie or by silence.
Silence is the greatest ornament in a woman.
Silence is the voice of complicity.
Silence is wisdom and gets a man friends.
Some things are better praised by silence than by remark.
Silence has so much meaning.
Don't talk unless you can improve the silence.
Silence is the best answer to the stupid.
Repentance for silence is better than repentance for speaking.
As the sands of the desert are to the weary traveler, so are words to he who loveth silence.
From the tree of silence hands the fruit of tranquility.
Silence implies consent.
Speech is silver, silence is golden.
Along silence followed by mighty noise.
Unspoken words are the flowers of silence.
When people only talk about things they understand then a great silence will descend upon the world.
No wisdom to silence.
Silence condemns more effectively than loud accusations.
A man must suffer in silence.
Well-timed silence is the most commanding __expression.
Silence cannot be misquoted.
Don't undermine my silence, its got reason; don't rate it, it as got no scale.
Silence is the best answer to the stupid.
Don't talk unless you can improve the silence.
Silence is golden.
Silence means consent.
Ate and praised is better than ate and was silence.
The most praised form of fluency is silence when talk isn't wise.
Silence is a cure for grief.
The tree of silence bears the fruit of peace.
Speech is oft repented, silence seldom.
Speech is silver, but silence is golden.
Speech is often repented, silence never.
The best answer to anger is silence.
Speaking comes by nature, silence by understanding.
Silence and reflection cause no dejection.
No one betrays himself by silence.
He who would prosper in peace, must suffer in silence.
Silence is the sign of agreement.
Silence is golden.
Great things can best be said in silence.
Silence is a fine jewel for a woman, but it is little worn.
If a word be worth one shekel, silence is worth two.
What we keep silence about, does not exist.
Noble deeds are done in silence.
Keeping silence won't get you to court.
Silence is the soul of negotiation.
Silence is the fence around wisdom.
Talking comes by nature, silence by wisdom.
Silence is also speech.
Silence is the soul of all things.
We must have reasons for speech but we need none for silence.
The newborn baby yells; you die in silence.
The spoken word sometimes loses what silence has won.
Sloth is the beginning of vice.
Sloth is the key to poverty.
All things are easy to industry, all things difficult to sloth.
Sloth is the key to poverty.
Sloth is the mother of poverty.
sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears.
Sloth is the mother of poverty.
Hey sloth, don't go into the shade, the shade would eventually come to you.
Sloth is the key to poverty.
Keep your broken arm inside your sleeve.
That sick man is not to be pitied who has his cure in his sleeve.
A broken sleeve holdeth the arm back.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
Monks have both a capacious sleeve and a tight sleeve.
Capacious as the sleeve of a monk and patient as the priest with his arms across his chest.
The friar preached against stealing when he had a pudding in his sleeve.
Every man has a fool up his sleeve.
Pin not your faith on another's sleeve.
Time and opportunity are in no man's sleeve.
Every man has a fool in his sleeve.
Put your hand no farther nor your sleeve may reek.
Every one has a fool in his sleeve.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
Put your hand nae farther oot than your sleeve will reach.
If you really have to sin, then choose a sin that you enjoy.
God forgives the sin of gluttony.
If not for fear, sin would be sweet.
"force me, and I shall commit no sin,” said the girl.
One sin is too much, a hundred prayers are not enough.
No sin is hidden to the soul.
Commit a sin twice and it will not seem a crime.
He who tells the truth doesn't sin, but he causes many inconveniences.
For a new sin, a new penance.
Poverty is no sin, but terribly inconvenient.
Whosoever eats bread without first washing his hands, it is as though he had sinned with a harlot.
He that swims in sin will sink in sorrow.
Sin is the root of much sorrow.
A sin confessed is half forgiven.
It is no sin to sell dear, but a sin to give ill measure.
Beating the dead is a sin.
Without knowledge, without sin.
Idleness is the beginning of all sin.
What is no sin, is no shame.
A sin concealed is half forgiven.
He who thinks badly commits a sin but hits the mark.
A hidden sin is half forgiven.
The first sin makes the bed for the second.
Every sin brings its punishment with it.
The king's ambassador is without sin.
A great sin can enter by a small door.
Doing that which has been done to us is not a sin.
Asking is no sin, and being refused is no tragedy.
Do not make me kiss, and you will not make me sin.
Poverty is a sin that the rich never forgive.
A sin of gold is followed by a punishment of lead.
He who avoids the temptations avoids the sin.
The sin carries its own penance.
The one who asks commits no sin.
The flea sinned, the reed-mat got the beating.
To show one's fist to a blind man is neither a sin nor a virtue.
The sin for which you repent is the father of virtue; but a virtue that you talk about, is the mother of sin.
A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear.
One who is free to sin, sins less; the very power weakens the seeds of sin.
That which is a sin in others is a virtue in ourselves.
Where a chest lieth open, a righteous man may sin.
No sin goes unpunished.
Avoid anger and you will not sin.
Sin concealed needs two forgivings.
Who avoids temptation avoids sin.
Let him who is without sin cast the first stone.
It is a sin against hospitality to open the doors and shut up the countenance.
It is easier not to commit a sin than to repent it.
Every one finds sin sweet and repentance bitter.
It's a sin to steal a pin.
Not to be ashamed of sin is to sin double.
It is not a sin to sell dear, but it is to make ill measure.
To be poor is not a sin, it's better to avoid it anyway.
A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear.
Every one thinks himself without sin because he has not those of others.
The just man may sin with an open chest of gold before him.
Until a child is one year old it is incapable of sin.
The law grows of sin, and chastises it.
Old sin makes new shame.
It's sin and not poverty that makes men miserable.
It is a sin to lye on the Devil.
Do no evil, it's a sin. Do no good, it's no use.
A deadly sin can't be concealed.
January commits the sin and May gets blamed.
Who robs commits a sin, who is robbed commits a hundred.
Repentance washes away sin.
With a good name one may sin easily.
A sin that is hidden is half forgiven.
The devil rebukes sin.
Nip sin in the bud.
Poverty is not a sin, it's worse than that.
To ask is no sin, and to be refused is no calamity.
The wages of sin is death.
He who avoids the temptation avoids the sin.
Take away the motive, and the sin is taken away.
Every man's sin falls on his own head.
Bat en guet Hake sin well, maut sik bi der Tit krümmen.
Ge fàgas clach don làr, is faisge na sin cobhair Choibhi.
It's not a sin to be a Savonian, but it's a big shame.
Sin means nothing but the consequences.
It's a sin and shame, if one sweats at working for a stranger.
That which is a sin in others is a virtue in ourselves.
The first sin makes the bed for the second.
To be poor is not a sin, it's better to avoid it anyway.
It is sin to steal a pin.
That which comes with sin, goes with sorrow.
It's not the sin that maddens a person but the desire to do it.
He who sleeps does not sin.
Birds sing not because they have answers but because they have songs.
Bad people don't sing.
When mosquitoes work, they bite and then they sing.
Until spring comes, nightingales do not sing.
With money in your pocket, you are wise, and you are handsome, and you sing well too.
You will hate a beautiful song if you sing it often.
Whose bread you eat, his songs you'll sing.
When we sing everybody hears us; when we sigh, nobody hears us.
Each bird loves to hear himself sing.
Those who are in the following of the prince of everlastingness and God of life, sing with joy.
If the bird hadn't sung, it wouldn't have been shot.
A stranger dances – he does not sing.
The song sang by men when going to hunt is not the same song they sing when they come back.
If you sing before breakfast, you'll cry before night.
Asses sing badly, because they pitch their voices too high.
Whose bread I eat, his song I sing.
The bird that can sing and won't sing should be made to sing.
Water teaches us to weep, wine teaches us to sing.
There are many people who can sing, but don't know the words.
It is better to hear the nightingale sing than the mouse gnaw.
Some sing who are not merry.
They who sing through the summer must dance in the winter.
Let someone else sing your praise.
Better when birds sing than where irons ring.
Sing before breakfast, cry before night.
Who does not love to dance, does not love to sing.
A rooster does not sing on two roofs.
If you can walk, you can dance; If you can talk, you can sing.
If you can walk you can dance, if you can talk you can sing.
Keep away from trouble and sing to it.
Drink and sing: the dark night is ahead of us.
You cannot dance without music though you can sing instrumentally without dancing.
Even a horn can be stopped from fighting and made to sing forever.
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.
When danger approaches, sing to it.
Don't ask the singer to sing until he wishes to sing by himself.
When the rooks are silent the swans begin to sing.
If a bird knew how poor he was it wouldn't sing so beautifully.
It is not for the swan to teach eaglets to sing.
Pretty children sing pretty songs.
Water quenches the thirst but does not teach you how to sing.
One can speak and seven can sing.
Birds of prey do not sing.
New songs are eagerly sung.
When you're hungry, sing; when you're hurt, laugh.
Sing the song of the man whose cart you sit on.
Those who want to sing will always find a song.
When cicadas sing, the swineherd weeps and works.
Water does harm but wine makes you sing.
Two nightingales do not sing on one branch.
The old ones sing, the young ones pipe.
What the old ones sing, the young ones whistle.
I sing the song of the person whose bread I eat.
You can cage a bird but you can't make it sing.
Entreaties to get him to sing, and entreaties to leave off.
The swans will not sing till the jackdaws are quiet.
Sing not of triumph before the victory.
He does not sing his father's songs.
As old people sing, young people tweet.
Drive fast and sing loud!
"When the rooster dies must the hen begin to sing", said the widow.
Let's sing a song from the book with glass cover.
As the old crow sing, so sings its fledglings.
Learn to say before you sing.
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.
When I eat your bread, I sing your song.
Each bird loves to hear himself sing.
When cicadas sing, the swineherd weeps and works. When frogs sing, the swineherd yawns.
No matter who has died, I want to sing. But when I die, anyone can sing.
People always sing the tune that pleases their benefactor.
As the old crow sings, so sing its fledglings.
You cannot strike a face that is smiling.
A smiling face is half the meal.
Fortune will call at the smiling gate.
If you see the fangs of the lions, don't think the lion is smiling.
A beautiful woman smiling, bespeaks a purse weeping.
What is loaned goes away smiling but returns weeping.
A man without a smiling face must not open a shop.
We come into this world crying while all around us are smiling. May we so live that we go out of this world smiling while everybody around us is weeping.
A smiling face dispels unhappiness.
Flowers are God's way of smiling.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years; the slave of a woman dies in six months.
A sword in the hands of a drunken slave is less dangerous than science in the hands of the immoral.
Rather be a slave to a rich man than the spouse of a poor man.
If you call a lady a slave, she laughs, but if you call a slave a slave, he cries.
A slave shows his true character, not while he is enslaved but when he becomes a master.
Better the grave than a slave.
The excessively kind-hearted person becomes a slave.
The tyrant is only the slave turned inside out.
When a slave mounts a camel he wants to ride on both humps.
A slave does not choose his master.
When the heart acts, the body is its slave.
Work like a slave and eat like a gentleman.
Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market.
He who works as a slave, eats as a king.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
The right hand is slave to the left.
It is better to be a free man in a small house than a slave in a big one.
Rather free in a foreign place than a slave back home.
He who carries too much tenderness will become a slave.
Be the master of your will and the slave of your conscience.
The same rain that drenches the slave also drenches the slave driver.
He who renounces his ancestrey is like a slave.
A slave must be humble.
Hunger is felt by a slave, and hunger is felt by a king.
Fire is a good slave, but a bad master.
Better an old man's darling than a young man's slave.
The slave must be content with the joys of his master.
He who is a slave of truth is a free man.
You are still a slave if only your limbs are free.
He who revealeth his secret maketh himself a slave.
The mistress is queen, the wife is the slave.
God did not create woman from man's head, that he should command her, nor from his feet, that she should be his slave, but rather from his side, that she should be near his heart.
Better be a good man's slave than badly married.
Who is made to slave should do it with pleasure.
Your five year old son is your instructor; at ten your slave; at fifteen your equal and after that either friend or foe.
The gardener who loves roses is slave to a thousand thorns.
A king or a slave.
A slave yesterday, to-day a freedman.
A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does: If he does not wash his hands, he is accused of being dirty. If he washes his hands, he is accused of wasting water.
A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does:.
A tyrant is only a slave turned inside out.
Hunger is felt by slave and king alike.
A slave has no choice.
Marriage is not a tight knot, but a slip knot.
The body pays for a slip of the foot and gold pays for a slip of the tongue.
There's many a slip twixt cup and lip.
Be a horse ever so well shod, he may slip.
Better the foot slip than the tongue.
Even an elephant can slip.
One word let slip and four horses would fail to catch it.
The body pays for a slip of the foot, and gold pays for a slip of the tongue.
What's all the fuss?" said the crane after the eel had slipped away. "I never liked fish anyway.
A single slip may cause lasting injury.
Do not look where you fell, but where you slipped.
There is many a slip ‘twixt cup and lip.
A slip of the foot and you may soon recover, but a slip of the tongue you may never get over.
Rather a slip of the foot than a slip of the pen.
A slip of the foot may soon be recovered; but that of the tongue perhaps never.
Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip.
Better slip with the foot than with the tongue.
Nobody can slip out of his own skin.
Who seizes too much with his own hand, will have everything slip away and will hold nothing.
‘Twixt the spoon and the lip, the morsel may slip.
Twixt the cup and the lip there's many a slip.
There is many a slip twixt cup and lip.
Marriage is a snake to slip into your handbag.
Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip.
Smiles that you broadcast, will always come back to you.
One who smiles rather than rages is always the stronger.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
When a man hurries, the devil smiles.
Smart who smiles, stupid who laughs.
When a girl in the teahouse smiles at you, look the other way.
A friend who fawns is better than an enemy who smiles.
A man who smiles when he's been robbed has stolen something from the thief.
Life is like a mirror if you fawn it, it fawns back and if you smile, it smiles.
Candour once went further boldly and in smiles, but it crept home in tatters and tears.
Marrying for love is risky, but god smiles on it.
People worry, and God smiles.
When prosperity smiles, beware of its guiles.
We need not friends if Providence smiles on us.
Fortune smiles on the brave, and frowns upon the coward.
Once in each man's life fortune smiles.
Smiles like a wooden horse in moonlight.
The tortoise is friends with the snail: those with shells keep their shells close together.
Pains and patience would take a snail to america.
It is not only the fox, even the snail arrives at its destination.
Putting salt on every snail.
The snail, to be rid of annoyances, bartered its eyes for horns.
The child is capable of splitting open the snail, not the tortoise.
Crime leaves a trail like a water beetle; like a snail, it leaves its silver track; like a horse-mango, it leaves its smell.
The snail leaves its trail wherever it goes.
Despise not a snail for its slow and struggling movement; it has a destination and with time it shall arrive.
Time and Patience would bring the snail to Jerusalem.
The snail is as sune at its rest as the swallow.
A man travels as far in a day as a snail in a hundred years.
Sickness comes in like a horse and leaves like a snail.
Imitate the snail in deliberation, the bird in execution.
Time and Patience would bring the snail to Jerusalem.
Ye drive a Snail to Rome.
The snail is coming, who knows when it arrives.
Smooth seas do not make skillful sailors.
Smooth words make smooth ways.
Smooth words do not flay the tongue.
On the way out, the road is rough; returning, it is smooth.
When you go, the road is rough; when you return, smooth.
It was smooth on paper, but we've forgotten about ravines.
A smooth talker is a good-for-nothing person.
The tongue is not statically smooth.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
When a soup is unpalatable, and the paste of the pounded yam that goes with it is not smooth, that is the time to know a man who loves to eat pounded yam.
If a man is not clean and smooth, there is nothing he can really do about pride.
Smooth hands love the labor of others.
From smooth water God preserve me, from rough I will preserve myself.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
It is the smooth water that runs deepest.
Believe not that the stream is shallow because its surface is smooth.
A single bracelet does not jingle.
You cannot hang everything on a single peg.
Without sowing a single wheat you would not harvest thousand ones.
If children's prayer had any effect, there wouldn't be a single teacher alive.
Landing a single punch on your enemy's nose is more satisfying than hearing well-intentioned advice from your elders.
A single Russian hair outweighs half a Pole.
A single advantage is worth a thousand sorceries.
Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house than to have one single enemy inside it.
For the sake of a single rose, the gardener becomes servant to a thousand thorns.
A 1000 miles journey starts with a single step.
A single hand can not nurse a child.
A single hand can not slaughter a cow.
A thousand li journey begins with a single step.
A single prayer moves heaven.
A single conversation across the table with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study.
Smart people get the point from a single hint.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
A single penny fairly got, is worth a thousand that are not.
He who marries does well, but who remains single does better.
A Single hand cannot wash itself even in the Danube river.
Misfortunes never come single.
A cloak is not made for a single shower of rain.
The whole ocean is made up of single drops.
A single man can not build a house.
A single finger cannot catch fleas.
A single hair hides the mountain in the distance.
A single day grants what a whole hear denies.
The devil's in the cards, said Sam, four aces and not a single trump.
A single bad experience is worth a thousand threats.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
A single log of wood does not burn even in an oven.
Never in speech with a foolish knave shouldst thou waste a single word.
A single roll of taro top is delicious if seasoned with affection.
We all end up in a single bed sooner or later.
A single arrow is easily broken, but ten in a bundle aren't.
A cloth is not woven from a single thread.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
A man of honor will feel ashamed by a single question to which he does not know the answer.
A single beam cannot support a great house.
A single untried popular remedy often throws the scientific doctor into hysterics.
Approach heaven with a single stride.
It is impossible to add much weight with a single morsel; it is hard to travel afar with a single step.
A single tree cannot make a forest.
Even two friendly dogs cannot share a single bone.
A single slip may cause lasting injury.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step.
A single fact is worth a shipload of argument.
A single penny fairly got is worth a thousand that are not.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
More than one war has been caused by a single word.
Beauty draws with a single hair.
A single stroke don't fell the oak.
There's little value in the single cow.
A single tree can not make a forest.
Don't pay a single gold coin for the sorrell, but when he's good, be ready to spend a fortune.
You can't make a rattle with a single walnut in a sack.
People who have not secret agreement are beaten by a single club.
Ten helpless people were surpassed by a single strong person.
When hitting the horn of a single cow, the horns of a thousand cows hurt.
Misfortunes never come single.
Rather a single grape for me than a brace of figs for thee.
It is easy for the single guy to divorce his wife.
There is not a single season without fruit.
In chatter a river, in understanding but a single drop.
When reading, don't let a single word escape your attention; one word may be worth a thousand pieces of gold.
A single [man] in a field is not a warrior.
A single kind word keeps one warm for three winters.
A single conversation with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
A single merit cannot make a hundred demerits fade.
A single fact is worth a shipload of argument.
Spring doesn't come with just a single flower.
If a scribe knows only a single line but his handwriting is good, he is indeed a scribe!
Old men sit in the shade because they planted a tree many years before.
When a hen is brooding, another hen cannot sit on her eggs.
No one likes to eat crumbs from a feast; everyone likes to sit at the table.
First bake the strudel then sit down and ponder.
It is better to sit down than to stand, it is better to lie down than to sit, but death is the best of all.
Sit on the bank of a river and wait: Your enemy's corpse will soon float by.
He that chases another does not sit still himself.
Sit a beggar at your table and he will soon put his feet on it.
Work and you will be strong; sit and you will stink.
If you sit at a crossroads, you will get sick.
Where you will sit when you are old shows where you stood in youth.
Better to sit all night than to go to bed with a dragon.
If you sit by the river long enough, you will see the body of your enemy float by.
If you are going to sit on it for three years, the seat will certainly get warm.
If two selfish young men sit next to a pot of water, the water spills out on the ground.
There is not enough room for two elephants to sit in the same shade.
Stand up, cent, let the dollar sit down.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
Sit where you are welcomed and helped, and don't sit where you are not welcomed.
It is too much to expect of a cat that she should sit by the milk and not lap it.
Don't budge, if you sit at ease.
Who lets another sit on his shoulder, will soon have him on his head.
A society grows great when old men plant trees in whose shade they know they shall never sit.
I have nothing for dinner, sit down to table.
He who wants milk should not sit in the middle of a field and wait for a cow to back up to him.
He that comes first to the hill, may sit where he will.
A man can not sit down alone to plan for prosperity.
If you want your eggs hatched, sit on them yourself.
A good backside will easily find a bench to sit on.
When you work with anxiety during the day, you'll sit up at night with your thoughts.
Who stands up with anger will sit down with loss.
If you sit on a seat, and that seat is a comfortable seat, sit on that seat, and do not leave that seat.
Pots take turns to sit on the fire.
Never sit while your seniors stand.
Everyone will sit on a little donkey.
Better to walk without knowing where than to sit doing nothing.
Sit, walk, or run, but don't wobble.
One who is fit to sit facing the south.
Sit atop the mountain and watch the tigers fight.
If you sit with us, you will get like us; if you sit beside a cooking pot, you will get black.
A chicken with beautiful plumage does not sit in a corner.
Travel and you will see them, sit and they will come to you.
If you want to sit under a shade in your old age plant a tree now.
He burned his own blister; now let him sit on it.
After dinner sit awhile; after supper walk a mile.
It is better to sit with a wise man in prison than with a fool in paradise.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all sit near him.
Never sit in the place of a man who can say to you, "rise.”.
He who can sit upon a stone and feed himself should not move.
It is easy to sit at the helm in fine weather.
He who lets another sit on his shoulder will soon have him on his head.
Stand up, farthing, let the florin sit down.
Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop, only a few sit down to his table.
Among those who stand, do not sit; among those who sit, do not stand. Among those who laugh, do not weep; among those who weep, do not laugh.
Sing the song of the man whose cart you sit on.
One cannot sit in two saddles having one arse/bottom only.
An unbidden guest knows not where to sit.
You can't teach old dogs to sit.
Don't sit among scoffers.
Ye may not sit in Rome, and strive with the Pope.
Better rew sit, nor rew flie.
He that wants content canna sit easy in his chair.
Sit, sit, daughter, sit, because good fortune is coming.
He who burns his posteriors must sit on blisters.
You would do better to sit on a powder keg than on the knee of a woman.
Where conceit and ignorance sit, grass will not grow again.
I'll marry, and eat the prime of the pot, and sit down first.
Better sit idle than work for naught.
If you receive pay, you cannot sit idle and if you sit idle, you cannot receive pay.
Better to sit all night than to go to bed with a dragon.
If you want your eggs hatched, sit on them yourself.
Sit quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself.
Great business is good; to sit and sip this glass is better.
When the powerful sit, they are none the weaker.
He that comes first to the hill may sit where he will.
Let me drink beer shandy and sit in the seat of honour!
I shall sit on his skirt.
Better rue sit than rue flit.
A hundred men can sit together quietly.
he has eaten so many snakes that has become a viper.
Little snakes need to grow in hiding.
Ropes that are too long become snakes.
Snakes turn milk into poison.
Snakes follow the way of serpents.
He who wants to be a dragon must eat many little snakes.
If all snakes live together in one place who would approach them.
Look before you leap, For snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
The eye of the Syracusan makes the snakes come out of their pits.
Marriage is a sack full of ninety-nine snakes and one eel.
Every smart man is an ignoramus who abuses his ignorance.
Smart bird gets trapped in its beak.
Under a shabby cloak may be a smart drinker.
Smart people get the point from a single hint.
If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get ill.
Truth makes the tongue smart.
To speak French doesn't mean you are smart.
Smart who smiles, stupid who laughs.
Who is smart will learn.
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.
To be a smart man you need to be humble.
No matter how smart a person is, eventually he will make a mistake.
A smart man is usually humble.
A smart person will not climb a mountain; A smart person will go around it.
A wife is a luxury... A smart accountant a necessity.
We grow too soon old and too late smart.
If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get sick.
From Nanking to Beijing, buyers are never as smart as the sellers.
It takes a smart woman to be a fool.
For smart people, signs can replace words.
Every one sees his smart coat, no one sees his shrunken belly.
We get too soon old and too late smart.
A smart man doesn't give his wife a lot of freedom.
If the pupil is smart, the teacher gets the credit.
You cannot be very smart if you have never done anything foolish.
Where you smart there I will hit you.
If you're so smart, why aren't you rich?
However smart a squirrel jumps, in the end they fall back down.
Smart people are blessed.
He that handles thorns unawares may smart for it.
Where there is finery, there lies the snare.
An old fox does not run twice into the snare.
The fox which was caught in a snare called: If I shall not get the whole chicken, I will not be satisfied with the drumstick.
Even old foxes are caught in the snare.
He who laid a snare for me has fallen into it.
An old fox is not caught in a snare.
In the snare laid for others is your foot taken.
The fox which was caught in a snare.
The mouth brought the wolf into the trap, the tongue the ermine to the snare.
The world is a rose: smell it and pass it on to your friends.
No matter if you eat a little or a lot of garlic, the smell is just as strong.
Every man likes the smell of his own farts.
The chemist doesn't smell his own medicine.
He who has bad breath cannot smell it.
Money has no smell.
If you beat spice it will smell the sweeter.
It may smell like a melon, but is it going to make you sick?
An old man's mouth produces a bad smell but the words that come out of it are sweet.
No one loathes the smell of himself.
He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet.
To change one's habits has a smell of death.
Fish and guests smell when they are three days old.
The nose didn't smell the rotting head.
Beauty widout grace like rose widout smell.
When jackass smell corn, ‘im gallop.
When visitors come a wi fireside, wi mek wi pot smell nice.
Sweet is the smell from your own ass.
Take time to smell the roses.
To smell one's own bosom is fit.
Crime leaves a trail like a water beetle; like a snail, it leaves its silver track; like a horse-mango, it leaves its smell.
Fish and guests smell in three days.
The flowers in your garden don't smell as sweet as those in the wild, but they last much longer.
He who rides upon an ass cannot help but smell its gas!
When an elephant is dead, a hare will not smell.
A fox does not smell his own stench.
Old fishermen never die, they just smell that way.
Fish and visitors smell after three days.
Fish and visitors smell in three days.
The poor always smell.
If you buy cheap meat, you'll smell what you have saved when it boils.
If you buy cheap meat, when it boils you smell what you have saved.
Fish and guests smell at three days old.
See Naples, and then die! For the smell you find there.
Fresh fish and new-come guests smell in three days.
They that smell least, smell best.
The blind say that eyes have no sense of smell.
Whoever rubs himself with garlic will not smell of cloves.
They made the garlic a bride, its smell did not come out for forty days.
He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet.
Smell a rat.
Hitch a horse and an ass to the same post; if they don't smell the same, they'll behave the same.
Mice play around, when they don't smell the cat.
Every flower has a different smell.
To a quick question, give a slow answer.
In bad things be slow; in good things be quick.
Both the fast and the slow will meet each other on the ferry boat.
The slow hound often has good qualities.
To be slow in giving ant to refuse, are alike.
Slow water washes away the bank.
Slow fires will smolder for a long time.
Slow and sure.
Death is nature's way of telling you to slow down.
Alone a youth runs fast, with an elder slow, but together they go far.
He who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
Quick to borrow is always slow to pay.
Slow but sure wins the race.
Slow moving lion eats meat.
We are not so much concerned if you are slow as when you come to a halt.
Despise not a snail for its slow and struggling movement; it has a destination and with time it shall arrive.
Real friendship is a slow grower.
On an unknown path every foot is slow.
Confidence is a plant of slow growth.
Slow help is no help.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Who rides slow, must saddle betimes.
Slow help is no help.
He who is slow to anger is longer getting over it.
Prepaid work is slow.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
Don't be too bold, or you will burn your eyes; but don't be too slow, or you will lose your share.
Be slow to reach for your purse and quick to tip your hat.
God is an honest payer, but a very slow one.
By slow degrees the bird builds his nest.
Hasty questions require slow answers.
Spending is quick, earning is slow.
Slow but sure.
By speedy, not by slow measures.
The swift are overtaken by the slow.
Be swift to hear, slow to speak.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
Slow help is no help.
Even a slow walker will arrive.
Confidence is a plant of slow growth.
Slow but sure.
If your messenger is slow, go to meet him.
A person slow to anger has great understanding; one with a quick temper exalts foolishness.
God's mill grinds slow but sure.
Don't be too bold, or you will burn your eyes; but don't be too slow.
Slow speech and stiff tongue like Moses had.
God is slow, but he does not forget.
He who loves well is slow to forget.
Vengeance is slow, but stern.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
A sleeping fox finds no meat.
A sleeping fox counts chicken in his dreams.
You may laugh at a friend's roof; don't laugh at his sleeping accommodation.
Nobody wants to buy a sleeping horse.
Sleeping shrimp gets taken by the current.
Don't kick a sleeping dog.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
The sleeping fox catches no poultry.
Law helps the waking, luck may come to the sleeping.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
No good will come of over sleeping.
No sheep runs into the mouth of a sleeping wolf.
Only a medicine man gets rich by sleeping.
An idle person may have just three tasks: sleeping, eating and quarrelling.
One can not stop sleeping in fear of bad dreams.
When sleeping women wake, mountains move.
There will be sleeping enough in the grave.
Do not wake one who is sleeping; you will fall asleep yourself.
Sleeping people can't fall down.
Wake not a sleeping lion.
To serve a prince is like sleeping with a tiger.
A newly committed crime awakens sleeping ones.
A spider's cobweb isn't only its sleeping spring but also its food trap.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
A sleeping head needs more than its neck to support it.
The sleeping fox catches no chickens.
Let the sleeping dog lie.
A boor remains a boor even if sleeping on silken pillows.
Throw no stones at a sleeping dog.
Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox.
A sleeping fox catches no hare, chicken.
Do not wake up the sleeping bear.
It is ill to waken sleeping dogs.
Waken not sleeping dogs.
Three things give us hardy strength: sleeping on hairy mattresses, breathing cold air, and eating dry food.
The sleeping dog is turned by a stick.
Wake not a sleeping cat.
Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox.
Don't tread on the tail of a sleeping snake.
The sleeping dog is turned by a stick.
No person born great. Great people become great when others are sleeping.
Only a medicine man gets rich by sleeping.
Wake not a sleeping lion.
Sleeping farmer gets a dreaming farmhand.
Who gets married to a thin woman will know bitterness and strife, who marries a plump woman will be contented at the table and sleeping chamber.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
A tear at the right moment is better than a misplaced smile.
Judge not your beauty by the number of people who look at you, but rather by the number of people who smile at you.
Every tear has a smile behind it.
Don't open a shop unless you know how to smile.
The man who gives little with a smile gives more than the man who gives much with a frown.
Life is short; but it barely takes a second to smile.
He who wears a smile instead of worrying is always the strongest.
A smile will gain you ten more years of life.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
The smile of a rose uplifts the nightingale.
When a father helps a son, both smile; but when a son must help his father, both cry.
A cup must be bitter that a smile will not sweeten.
All are not friends who smile on you.
The bigger the smile, the sharper the knife.
Don't trust those who frequently smile.
Instead of worrying, a strong man wears a smile.
When a woman talks to you, smile but do not listen.
If you have nothing else to offer me, offer me your smile.
The shortest distance between two people is a smile.
The cheapest way to improve your looks is to wear a smile.
Smile... heaven is watching!
Life is like a mirror if you fawn it, it fawns back and if you smile, it smiles.
A bottle that believes it's cracked to smile it will end up on the dustbin.
A good smile shows how happy the soul is.
The cheapest way to win a person is by a smile.
A smile is worth a thousand words.
Deceit is a lie which wears a smile.
A friend's frown is better than a fool's smile.
May the smile of God light you to glory.
A timely tear is better than a misplaced smile.
All are not your friends who smile at you.
A smile shortens the distance.
Patience begins with tears and ends with a smile.
Always remember that a smile is something sacred, to be shared.
A smile makes you ten years younger.
Soap is grey but it used to be white.
If you try to cleanse others - just like soap, you will waste away in the process.
Do not judge a man by the whiteness of his turbin, soap is bought on credit.
The poor are excused from washing with soap.
He who scrubs the head of an ass wastes his soap.
What soap is for the body, tears are for the soul.
What soap is to the body, laughter is to the soul.
God has spared the naked man from washing his clothes with soap.
Reproaches are the soap of the heart.
Don't even take a bath with fools, because they'll throw away the soap.
Like soap for the body so are tears for the soul.
God doesn't give more beards than soap.
Don't be fooled by how clean the turban is, the soap was probably bought on credit.
To lather an ass's head is only wasting soap.
It is a loss of soap to wash the ass's head.
To wash an ass's head is but loss of time and soap.
An ass in a lion's skin.
Beauty is only skin deep.
Only your nail scratches your skin.
Rain beats on a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots.
Youth sheds many a skin. The steed does not retain its speed forever.
A rash man, a skin of good wine, and a glass vessel, do not last long.
Talk of the wolf and behold his skin.
Who does not wish to be like the wolf let him not wear its skin.
Where the skin of the lion does not suffice, we must join that of the fox.
The tail is always the most difficult part to skin.
A thorn pierces young skin more quickly than old.
The owner of the skin is the one to tan it.
It is easy to pull a thorn out of someone else's skin.
If the lion's skin cannot, the fox's shall.
The one who is caught with the skin is the thief.
The skin of yesteday's sugarcane is a havest to an ant.
Don't estimate the value of a badger skin before catching the badger.
If the skin of your belly is tight, the skin of your eyelids can sleep.
A tiger dies and leaves his skin; a man dies and leaves his name.
Beauty is skin deep.
My skin is closer to me than my shirt is.
The skin fits closer than the shirt.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone.
Ask me what are my virtues, not about the color of my skin.
You can have no more of the fox than his skin.
The fox changes his skin, but keeps the rogue.
Where the lion's skin falls short, borrow of the fox.
Do it as if there was fire in your skin.
Water has leaked under her/his skin.
He would skin a flint.
With the skin of the dog its bite is cured.
Sell not the bear's skin before you have caught him.
When the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox.
Angry cats get scratched skin.
Dont sell the skin, until you have shot the bear.
Rat belly full, potato have skin.
Cuss-cuss noh bore hole a mi skin.
Often a troll-woman is under fair skin, and virtue under dark hair.
Don't sell the skin till you've caught the bear.
The skin is nearer than the shirt.
He can cheat a fish of its skin.
It is the part of a good shepherd to shear his flock, not to skin it.
The skin creaks according to the country.
Bump-thump-scratch. It's all on a big man's skin.
Eat and take belly, because tomorrow the assistant of the executioner will come to take the skin.
There is more than one way to skin a cat.
You are a sweet skin buckey.
The ox that feeds itself does not spoil its skin.
Every skin teeth ain't a laugh.
The skin of the leopard is beautiful, but not his heart.
The leopard's skin is beautiful, but his heart evil.
You can hide a mark on your skin, but not a defect.
A man's shirt does not change the color of his skin.
Every who streches a skin on a drum, pulls the skin own his own side.
Learn to paint a tiger and you only paint his skin; learn to know a human being and you only know his face.
Of a dead leopard we keep the skin, of man his reputation.
A snake can shade its skin but it still remains a snake.
No cloth can be better than your skin.
It takes a season for a snake to change into its new skin.
A chameleon can only change its colour but never change its skin.
Rain beats a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots.
You can shear a sheep many times but you can skin him only once.
Beauty is only skin deep.
Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin.
You can have no more of a cat than her skin.
A fair skin often covers a crooked mind.
You cannot shear the sheep closer than the skin.
Every fox looks after his own skin.
Fine linen often conceals scabby skin.
He does not live in this world that can skin a grindstone.
It is good to sleep in a whole skin.
Never give the skin when you can pay with the wool.
Beauty is only skin deep, ugliness goes to the bone.
Don't share the skin while it's still on the bear.
Nobody can slip out of his own skin.
Every one carries his own skin to the market.
Every fox must pay his own skin to the flayer.
Don't sell the bear's skin before you have caught him.
Shoot the bear before you skin it.
Thou wilt get no more of the cat, but the skin.
Mad dogs get their skin torn.
There lies often falsehood beneath a pretty skin.
An eager dog often gets a torn skin.
Beauty is only skin deep.
It is good to sleep in a whole skin.
Man is the only mammal that can be skinned more than once.
He took the devil's mat, but he'll pay back with his skin.
The soldier is well paid for doing mischief.
A soldier on furlough lets his shirt hang out of his trousers.
The soup makes the soldier.
A good soldier has only three things to think about; the king, God, and nothing.
It is the blood of the soldier that makes the general great.
An old horse for a young soldier.
You'll know the good soldier in battle.
The first duty of a soldier is obedience.
A good soldier is a poor scout.
Advantage is a better soldier than rashness.
From the soldier who has no cloak, keep your own in your chest.
A lord without riches is a soldier without arms.
The love of a soldier doesn't last long; when the drum rolls; Good bye, dear lady.
If one soldier knew what the other thinks, there would be no war.
To take ambition from a soldier, is to rob him of his spurs.
At once a good general and a stout soldier.
O, God, if there be a God, save my soul if I have a soulǃ (A soldier before the battle of Blenheim in 1704)
The soldier who retreats 50 paces jeers at the one who retreats 100 paces.
What the soldier said isn't evidence.
A frog living at the bottom of the well thinks that the sky is as small.
If people come together, they can even mend a crack in the sky.
Ambition is putting a ladder against the sky.
Better one bird in the hand than ten in the sky.
Under the mountains is silver and gold, But under the night sky, hunger and cold.
The sky is of the same color wherever you go.
When the sky falls down, the earth shall melt.
Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond.
Even if the sky falls on you, there is a hole that you can escape from.
Although the snake does not fly it has caught the bird whose home is in the sky.
Rain does not stay in the sky.
A titmouse in the hand is better than a crane in the sky.
All who live under the sky are woven together like one big mat.
If the prayers of dogs were answered, bones would rain from the sky.
The wise are as rare as eagles that fly high in the sky.
One sees the sky through a hollow reed.
A man's heart and the autumnal sky.
A man's heart changes as often as does the autumn sky.
On which soil we stand on, that is where we carry the weight of the sky.
Though God is almighty, he doesn't send rain from a clear sky.
Despite the beauty of the moon, sun and stars, the sky also has a threatening thunder and striking lightening.
The sky does not rain gold or silver.
Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning.
When the sky falls, we'll all catch larks.
A tree does not grow from the sky.
Who throws a stone at the sky, it falls back on his head.
Even if gypsy children are dropped from the sky.
The difference between them is like that between sky and earth.
He would even lie, there is no star in the sky.
Stones hurled to the sky. Don't get angry if you get hit.
A sheep's wool sky means wind's to follow, either a Levant or a West wind or a Sirocco.
If the sky were to fall we should catch plenty of larks.
I have a cow in the sky, but cannot drink her milk.
The sky is so close for him who sits.
For whoever wants the blue sky, the price is high.
When you die, you will be spoken of as those in the sky, like the stars.
Although the snake does not fly, it has caught the hornbill, whose home is in the sky.
He who spits towards the sky is spitting on his face.
To roast fish on sky and to eat them.
I am being carried on great wings across the sky.
If everyone helps to hold up the sky, then one person does not become tired.
Knock on the sky and Listen to the sound.
You can't see the whole sky through a bamboo pole.
The spit aimed at the sky comes back to one.
Ones who are unable to live under the same sky.
Do not gaze at the sky from the bottom of a well.
A cloudy sky doesn't always cry rain.
Though the sky belongs to the bird it can't fly when it's raining.
Dry thunder that tears the sky doesn't make you forget the storm of yesterday.
The sky is wide enough for two birds to fly without their wings touching.
If you borrow from an eagle you will always be looking up in the sky.
No matter how short a man is, he will always see the sky.
A person who is always looking at the sky will never discover anything on the ground.
No matter how high the vulture may choose to soar, the eagle will remain king of the sky.
Wherever you go, the sky is the same color.
Luck in the sky and brains in the ground.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
Red sky at night is a shepherds delight, red sky in the morning is a shepherds warning.
If regret was a horn, one's horn would reach the sky.
No man has fallen from the sky learned.
Don't try to cover the whole sky with the palm of your hand.
The limits is the starlit sky.
Spit in the sky, it falls in your eye.
When the sky looks like a hot oven, if no rain today, rain tomorrow.
When you see a sheep's wool sky you know, if it doesn't rain today, it will rain in the morning.
A red sky means either water or wind; if it doesn't rain, it will be fair weather.
The crow flies sky high and lands on a pig.
Were the sky to fall, not an earthen pot would be left whole.
Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond.
If they say there is a wedding in the sky, women would try to put up a ladder.
If a dog's prayers were answered, bones would rain from the sky.
If the sky falls there will be pots broken.
If the sky falls we shall catch larks.
If the sky falls, hold up your hands.
In prosperity you may count on many friends; if the sky becomes overcast you will be alone.
Red sky at night shepherds delight.
The eyes are like stars of the sky, not so bright, but as far away from each other.
If the sky falls, we shall catch larks.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
Clear sky, cultivate; rainy, read.
The sky is big and the emperor is far away.
The gem of the sky is the sun; the gem of the house is the child.
Red sky in the morning shepherds warning.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
A face without freckles is like a sky without stars.
It's not possible to go to sky by a ladder.
The trees do not grow up to the sky.
Greed takes birds from the sky and fish from the sea.
The hot sun melts away the snow; when anger comes, does wisdom go.
There is no winter without snow, no spring without sunshine, and no happiness without companions.
If you have a bulldozer, you don't need a snow shovel.
It is no use fretting after last winter's snow.
May kabul be without gold rather without snow.
A snow year, a rich year.
Mountains are used to snow.
A good deed is written on snow.
If the icy snow carries you at midsummer, then we can expect a late spring.
No matter how much snow falls, it won't remain there all the way till summer.
It needs no laran to prophesy snow at midwinter.
Each day you can admire the moon, the snow and the flowers.
Send charcoal in a snow storm.
Ill gotten gains are like snow that is sprinkled with hot water.
Add frost to snow.
Unjustly obtained wealth is as snow sprinkled with hot water.
If you walk on snow you cannot hide your footprints.
Year of snow fruit will grow.
The sun will bring to light what lay under the snow.
Lies melt the snow.
From snow whether cooked or pounded you will get nothing but water.
As the snow melts the filth shows through.
In spring no one thinks of the snow that fell last year.
Cease your snow balls casting.
May problems with neighbors last only as long as snow in March.
It's dumb to put snow on the kitchen spit, the snow melts and the fire goes out.
The nightime March snow disappears by day.
You can't make cheesecakes out of snow.
What lay hidden under the snow cometh to light at last.
A year of snow, a year of plenty.
The first snow does not mean winter, nor the first love marriage.
From snow, whether baked or boiled, you will get nothing but water.
Forwards said the granny in the snow.
Ask about last year's snow!
Snow made an angel to the hall.
Freezes like a flea on the snow.
As pure as snow.
Advices are like snow very gentle but can snowball in the end.
Mountains are used to snow.
Thaw reveals what has been hidden by snow.
Where is by now the snow of last year.
A year of snow, bodes a good year for olives.
When the fields are flooded you'll have hunger, when they're snow covered there'll be plenty to eat.
Young man's mind and April's snow.
Wipe your sore eye with your elbow.
To kick with sore toe only hurts foot.
Honey is bitter for a sore mouth.
A malignant sore throat is a danger; a malignant throat not sore is worse.
Keep something for the sore foot.
There's no sore ass like your own sore ass.
The light is painful to sore eyes.
Snapping curs never want sore ears.
Hungry flies bite sore.
Where there is no sore there needs no plaister.
The tongue always returns to the sore tooth.
The sore is cured but the scar remains.
A store is no sore.
An unpleasant guest is as welcome as salt to a sore eye.
Hungry flies sting sore.
Sore is the mouth that loses its first tooth.
One always knocks oneself in the sore place.
If you have a sore eye wipe it with your elbow.
If one throws salt at you, you will not be harmed unless you have sore places.
If you play push with the porcupine, expect to get sore hands.
Store is no sore.
In the hotel of decisions the guests sleep well.
He makes the bed soft, yet it's hard to sleep on.
The snake and the crab don't sleep in the same hole.
Sleep is the cousin of death.
He who cannot sleep can still dream.
Don't tell any more fairy tales when the child has gone to sleep.
Not until just before dawn do people sleep best; not until people get old do they become wise.
A good laugh and a long sleep are the two best cures in the doctor's book.
If you go to sleep with the blind, you'll wake up squinting.
The guard's sleep is the lamplight of the thief.
Early sleep and early wake up, gives health and makes you grow.
It is only in your coffin that you sleep really well.
When you have three daughters, you sleep with the door open.
No sleep, no dream.
Sleep has no master.
It's better to sleep on the floor in an incense shop than in a bed in a fishmarket.
The less you know, the more soundly you sleep.
Those who sleep with dogs gets up with fleas.
Whoever is ashamed to sleep with his wife will never have children.
Moral people sleep well at night, but the immoral seem to get pleasure from the waking hours much more.
Become famous, then go to sleep.
Whenever I work hard for other people, I always sleep on an empty stomach.
You cannot know the defects of a house you have not slept in.
If the skin of your belly is tight, the skin of your eyelids can sleep.
Poor men sleep the best.
The poor sleep soundly.
The surface of the water is beautiful, but it is no good to sleep on.
Sleep with a woman and she will make sure you wake up.
A man with too much ambition cannot sleep in peace.
If you think you're too small to be noticed go and sleep in a room which is full of mosquitoes.
When a mother has twins she must sleep on her back.
Plough your furrows deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
A man is known to be mortal by two things, sleep and lust.
When the dog is awake, the shepherd may sleep.
If you get a reputation as an early riser, you can sleep till noon.
He who has cattle on the hill will not sleep easy.
If you know lullaby, why can't you sleep?
Eat in poland, drink in hungary, sleep in germany, and make love in italy.
Sleep after selling horses and elephants.
To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of.
Have luck, and sleep.
Fortune, and go to sleep.
Get a good name and go to sleep.
Men and women sleep on the same pillow, but they have different dreams.
The devil does not sleep.
The hunter does not rub himself in oil and lie by the fire to sleep.
Sleep on a bed of silver and dream of gold.
If you go to bed hungry, you'll wake up without having slept.
If you sleep under a tree, you can't prevent the leaf from falling on you.
An empty head gets the easiest sleep.
If stars were loaves, many people would sleep out.
If all else fails, sleep with your mother.
Sleep is the poor man's treasure.
If you want to die quickly, wash your head and go to sleep.
Work doesn't scare him, but he could lay down near it and sleep.
If you want your dreams to come true, don't over sleep.
I'll sleep on it.
Precaution said, Good friend, this counsel keep: strip not yourself until you're laid to sleep.
An enemy does not sleep.
One may make up a soft bed for somebody, but still it will be hard to sleep in.
The more you know the less will you sleep.
Dine with arrogance, sleep with shame.
Return property to its owner, and your sleep will be peaceful.
Marriage is the only war in which you sleep with the enemy.
Nobody gets out of the bed to sleep on the floor.
Just because you are poor does not mean you have to sleep with your mother.
If you sleep with targs, you'll wake up with glob flies.
Sleep can interfere.
Thou shalt never sleep in the arms of a sorceress, lest she should lock thy limbs.
The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch.
The law helps those who watch, not those who sleep.
Sleep is better than medicine.
A man with too much ambition cannot sleep in peace.
A person will change his mind on something if left to sleep over it.
When you sleep in a house your thoughts are as high as the ceiling, when you sleep outside they are as high as the stars.
You must have slept with jean to know how he snores.
Sleep and wait for good luck.
Fire and gunpowder do not sleep together.
Curse your wife at evening, sleep alone at night.
Sleep is the brother of Death.
The loss of one night's sleep is followed by ten days of inconvenience.
You can only know the fleas in the bed you have slept in.
No matter how rich a man may be he cannot sleep on two beds at ago.
News does not sleep on the way.
If you are threatened by a man, sleep at night, if it is by a woman then stay awake.
The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch.
The eye is not harmed by sleep.
Strength is defeated by a strong strategy. Every road leads somewhere.
There wouldn't be such a thing as counterfeit gold if there were no real gold somewhere.
Better than a banquet somewhere else is a good cup of tea and a bowl of rice at home.
In a group of many words, there is bound to be a mistake somewhere in them.
Every exit is an entry to somewhere.
When you can't find peace within yourself, there is no use looking for it somewhere else.
Good day, bean! Have you seen another somewhere?
If a person's foresight were as good as their hindsight, we would all get somewhere.
If you are in Rome, live in the Roman way, if you are somewhere else, live like there. (attributed to Ambrose of Milan)
It is the soil that knows that the mouse's baby is ill.
On which soil we stand on, that is where we carry the weight of the sky.
One clean sheet will not soil another.
Black soil produces white bread.
When a yam doesn't grow well, we don't blame it; it is because of the soil.
No partridge is small when it claws the soil.
To call war the soil of courage and virtue is like calling debauchery the soil of love.
Break the soil when it's moist, plow with the warm weather, and do the seeding on time.
Cultivate not a barren soil.
Night soil.
When the sun rises, I go to work. When the sun goes down I take my rest, I dig the well from which I drink, I farm the soil which yields my food, I share creation, Kings can do no more.
Gold today, soil tomorrow.
The bird ought not to soil its own nest.
A woman is attractive when she is somebody else's wife.
The Sparrows quarrel over somebody else's millet.
Don't cry at somebody else's grave.
He drives the water to the mill of somebody.
He removes the baptismal water from somebody.
On the ladder to success there is always somebody on the rung above you and who uses your head to steady himself.
One may make up a soft bed for somebody, but still it will be hard to sleep in.
No money is taken for just looking at somebody or something.
He who holds somebody on the ground is holding himself too.
Through others I am somebody.
It is good for somebody as well as bad for someone else.
Everybody wants to be somebody; nobody wants to grow.
To pull somebody by a wire.
There is no loss, which is not a gain for somebody.
He crushes pepper under the nose of somebody.
It is a splinter in the eye of somebody.
He wont pick strawberries into the basket on somebody else.
If you want something, go yourself, if not, send somebody else.
He puts out the eye of somebody with something.
He shouts snake and frog at somebody.
If you have one finger pointing at somebody, you have three pointing towards yourself.
People slander somebody even if they do not despise him.
Do not dig a hole for somebody else; you yourself will fall into it.
Talk little and well, and you will be looked upon as somebody.
A very jealous person is glad when somebody else cries.
If you get to thinking you're a person of some influence, try ordering somebody else's dog around.
Just toss it in my hat and I'll sort it tomorrow.
The is unnecessary to make a fuss of any sort of thrash.
If the glacier perceives a headless army is clumsy, it feels a sort of emphatic guilt, I dare say.
He who adorns himself knows to what sort of dance he is going.
Poverty is a sort of leprosy.
Not every sort of wood is fit to make an arrow.
Of no sort of good to himself, or to anybody else.
Idleness is a sort of suicide.
That sort of head needs that sort of razor.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
A soft answer turns away anger.
A soft dropping April brings milk to cows and sheep.
Soft water on hard rock, beats so much that it perforates it.
You cannot make a soft bed for everyone.
Old oxen like soft grass.
The soft tongue is sucked by the lioness.
Do not waste your time looking for soft ground to drive your spade in.
Only when you can be extremely pliable and soft can you be extremely hard and strong.
The tongue is soft but constantly remains; the teeth are hard yet they fall out.
A clear conscience makes a soft pillow.
A good conscience is a soft pillow.
A clear conscience is a soft pillow.
Soft words butter no turnips.
Soft words butter no parsnips, but they won't harden the heart of the cabbage either.
Don't be hard and don't be soft and don't desert your friend for your own share.
September blow soft till the fruit's in the loft.
You can better drink from a small well with soft water than from the salty sea.
Who is soft will be sat on.
There is no pillow so soft as a clear conscience.
One may make up a soft bed for somebody, but still it will be hard to sleep in.
Makes the bed soft, yet hard to sleep.
Honey-tongued, soft spoken, malicious, and unprincipled in conduct.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
A heard head makes a soft behind.
Let him speak soft words and offer wealth who longs for a woman's love.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
No pillows so soft as God's Promise.
A soft answer turns away wrath.
Even when you dig a soft place, you still leave the garden.
Use soft words and hard arguments.
Soft water constantly striking the hard stone, wears it at last.
Soft words and hard arguments.
Soft pace goes far.
The stones of my river are as soft as a pillow.
Soft and fair goeth far.
Ignorance and incuriosity are two very soft pillows.
A good armchair makes the backside soft and the heart hard.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
Soft and fair goes far.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
Be as hard as the world requires you to be, and as soft as the world allows you to be.
Soft water can break the hardest stone.
A clear conscience is a soft mat (or pillow)
Butter is crazy three times a year, when it's too hard, too soft and then when there's no butter at all.
Soft words don't scotch the tongue.
The sooner begun, the sooner done.
The sooner you get in, the sooner you get out.
Don't wait for an anthill to build up in your mushroom better attack its origin sooner than later.
Least said sooner mended.
It dawns none the sooner for all one's early rising.
He who comes sooner shall mill/grind sooner.
Sooner or later the truth comes to light.
The less said the sooner mended.
God gives wings to the ant that she may perish the sooner.
For all one's early rising, it dawns none the sooner.
Nothing dries sooner than tears.
A good name is sooner tint that won.
Ill air slays sooner than the sword.
Nothing dries sooner than a tear.
We all end up in a single bed sooner or later.
Sooner or later the day comes when the tumor can be lanced.
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
Nothing dries sooner than tears.
A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.
No sooner have you spoken than what you have said becomes the property of another.
A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.
No sooner is the law made than its evasion is discovered.
Nothing comes sooner to light, than that which is long hid.
The weaker the patient is, the sooner the sickness will end.
Nothing grows old sooner than a kindness.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
The liar is sooner caught than the cripple.
Sooner could you hide an elephant under your armpit.
Sooner shall earth mount to heaven.
Sooner will a beetle make honey.
Neglect will sooner kill an injury than revenge.
Sooner will the tamarisk bear apples.
No sooner said than done.
Life's battle don't always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
The sooner, the better.
Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author.
Where you won't feast from, you sense it sooner than later.
Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author.
Sooner or later perseverance achieves.
I see by my daughter's face when the devil lays hold of my son-in-law.
The innkeeper loves a drunkard, but not for a son-in-law.
A good son-in-law is like the acquisition of a new son; a bad one is like the loss of your daughter.
With a mule you have a son, with a son-in-law you only have a mule.
After your daughter is married, there comes a number of potential sons-in-law.
A son-in-law and a pig will show you the way only once.
The innkeeper loves the drunkard, but not for a son-in-law.
After the daughter is married, then come sons-in-law in plenty.
If your son-in-law is good, you gained a son. if he is bad, you've lost a daughter.
It's better to be sorry and stay, than to be sorry and go away.
Calm seas make sorry sailors.
Better to be safe than sorry.
It is a sorry flock where the ewe bears the bell.
Praise borrowed from ancestors is but very sorry praise.
Better be sure than sorry.
The thief is sorry he is to be hanged, not that he is a thief.
He that feels sorry for the shoe, loses the horse.
He who serves the public has a sorry master.
The prettiest of shoes makes a sorry hat.
A rich man is happy while he is alive but sorry when he dies.
It is better to be safe than sorry.
He that marries for love has good nights, but sorry days.
It is a sorry house where the hens crow and the cock is silent.
He is a sorry barber who has but one comb.
You'd better have one hundred who envy you than one who is sorry for you.
'Tis a sorry ass that will not bear his own burden.
When the summer is winter, and the winter is summer, it is a sorry year.
Better safe than sorry.
A rich man is happy while he is alive but sorry when he dies.
Better safe than sorry.
Woe to him who fails in his obligations. • He is a sorry wretch who fails to keep his bonds.
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
There's no smoke without fire.
There is no smoke without fire.
No smoke without fire.
You can burn down a house, but can you hide the smoke?
Where there is no fire, no smoke rises.
Water, smoke, and a vicious woman, drive men out of the house.
He who blows into the wind gets smoke in his eyes.
He that will have fire must bear with smoke.
Where God cooks, there is no smoke.
You cannot hide the smoke of the hut you set on fire.
Clouds do not always mean rain, but smoke is a sure sign of fire.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
The smoke caused by meat which is roasted does not cause pain in the eyes of a hungry person.
Where there's smoke, there's toast.
There is no smoke without fire.
At court they sell a good deal of smoke without fire.
Where there is smoke there is fire.
The old pipe gives the sweetest smoke.
Sometimes you have to throw yourself into the fire to escape from the smoke.
Where there is smoke there is fire.
Three things drive a man out of doors: smoke, dropping water, and a shrew.
In prosperity no altars smoke.
Much smoke, and little roast.
Love, a cough, and smoke, are hard to hide.
Many a one leaves the roast who afterwards longs for the smoke of it.
The smoke of my own house is better than another man's fire.
They who shun the smoke often fall into the fire.
Who frequents the kitchen smells of smoke.
Smoke in your own country is purer than fire in a foreign land.
Smoke spreads further than the fire.
Secret fire is discovered by its smoke.
Every wood has its own smoke.
‘Tis best woo where a man can see the smoke.
Escaping from the smoke he falls into the fire.
Smoke, stench, and a troublesome wife are what drive men from home.
Bad charcoal only makes smoke.
Who wants heat, must endure the smoke.
No smoke will come out from a place where there is no fire.
A hidden fire is discovered by its smoke.
The smoke of our own country is brighter than fire abroad.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
Onions, smoke and women bring tears to your eyes.
If you burn a house, can you conceal the smoke?
Three things drive a man outdoors; smoke, a leaking roof and a scolding wife.
You may hide the fire, but what about the smoke?
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their honey.
When there are two fires in one room, only one will smoke.
You can't hide the smoke when the house is burning.
He that makes a fire of straw has much smoke but little warmth.
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
Smoke of the neighbours renders you blind.
Life, like a fire, begins in smoke and ends in ashes.
Smoke, rain, and a scolding wife, are three bad things in a house.
There is no fire without smoke.
I would rather see smoke from my own chimney than the fire on another's hearth.
He is a bad smith who cannot bear smoke.
He who wants a fire must be able to bear smoke.
If you don't light fires, smoke won't get in your eyes.
There is no smoke without fire.
There is no smoke without fire.
Where there's no fire there's no smoke.
There's no smoke with fire.
Where there is smoke, there is fire.
It went into smoke.
The smoke of a man's own house is better than the fire of another's.
He's like the rulers of la Rocca: a lot of smoke and no meat.
The promises of love and the smoke of a chimney, washed by water and blown away by the wind.
Love, coughing, and smoke can't be kept concealed.
No smoke without fire.
If the fire does not burn you the smoke will blacken you.
No fire without smoke.
Smoke, floods, and a troublesome wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life.
When a fox is in his hole, the smoke fetches him out.
Smoke, a dripping roof, and a scolding wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life.
While avoiding the smoke I have fallen into the flame.
Fire is next akin to smoke.
There is no smoke without fire. (15th century, Citatboken)
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
Smoke does not affect honeybees alone; honey-gatherers are also affected.
Put that in your pipe and smoke it.
There is no smoke without fire.
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their – honey.
When God cooks, you don't see smoke .
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
The rich eat. The poor smoke.
The rich eat kebab, the poor inhale smoke.
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
Truth came to market but could not be sold; however, we buy lies with ready cash.
Where the camel is sold for a cent, the ass is worthless.
If there was not bad taste, goods would not be sold.
Those bosoms can be sold cheapest which are stolen ready-made.
A gift delayed, and long expected, is not given, but sold dear.
A gift long expected is sold, not given.
A gift long waited for is sold, not given.
Beauty is not sold and eaten.
If everyone thought the same way, no goods would ever be sold.
It is the fool whose own tomatoes are sold to him.
Fuel is not sold in a forest, nor fish on a lake.
Anyone who has sold an old lady, knows the price of an old man.
If fools went not to market bad wares would not be sold.
Matches may be made in heaven, but they are sold down here.
When the cow has been sold with firmness you may relax for a while and go for a better one.
He sold his vinyard and bought a squeezer.
He who listens to a proposition is already half sold.
Love cannot be bought or sold its only price is love.
A good mule can be sold in his own territory.
The good cow gets sold in its own country.
Cooked food is not sold for goats.
If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold.
Time is money, said the unemployed when sold his watch.
He has sold the sun to buy a candle.
Cooked food is not sold for goats.
If a counsel were a good thing, it wouldn't be given, but sold.
Gold should be sold to the one who knows the value of it.
If everyone thought the same way, no goods would ever be sold.
Matches may be made in heaven, but they are sold down here.
The man is like the owner of Europe, 'though as far as I know I haven't sold a piece.
If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold.
A frog living at the bottom of the well thinks that the sky is as small.
Do not make yourself so big, you are not so small.
Even small fish, are fish.
Deep doubts, deep wisdom; small doubts, little wisdom.
There are no small parts, only small actors.
Big boast, small roast.
Even a small thorn causes festering.
Youth has a small head.
A small evil may be a great good.
Even the most beautiful sheets have small flaws.
It's when it's small that the cucumber gets warped.
Though the snake be small, it is still wise to hit it with a big stick.
A great river does not refuse any small streams.
Kill your anger while it is small.
In small churches, small saints are big..
Never forget benefits done you, regardless how small.
The best ointment comes in small boxes.
The sat one doesn't understand the hungry one: for one the soup is too thin, for the other - the pearls are too small.
Your hometown is like a small fatherland.
Even a small mouse has anger.
He who was born for a small loaf, will never own a big one.
A small house can lodge a hundred friends.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
Cut of the sick part while it is still small.
A great affair covers up a small matter.
Two small antelopes can beat a big one.
A man who cannot tolerate small misfortunes can never accomplish great things.
If you think you're too small to be noticed go and sleep in a room which is full of mosquitoes.
A small shrub may grow into a tree.
When an elephant becomes as small as a monkey, it ceases to be an elephant.
Don't ignore the small things - the kite flies because of its tail.
In great action, men show themselves as they ought to be, in small action as they are.
A small family is soon provided for.
There is small choice in rotten apples.
A small tumbledown house is better than a communal palace.
The pike grows big on small fry.
There is no eel so small but it hopes to become a whale.
Who avoids small sins, does not fall into great ones.
Women and wine, game and deceit, Make the wealth small and the wants great.
God is good, but never dance in a small boat.
If you steal something small you are a petty thief, but if you steal millions you are a gentleman of society.
A small hatchet fells a great oak.
When the cucumber is small, you can warp it easier.
Those who are born to be small shit never make it to big shit.
Good things come in small packages.
A small pack becomes a small peddler.
Better to have a diamond with a few small flaws than a rock that is perfect.
You can better drink from a small well with soft water than from the salty sea.
A small woman always seems newly married.
Small rain lays a great wind.
Small rain lays great dust.
Home, dear home, small as thou art, to me thou art a palace.
On every small pretext the wolf seizes the sheep.
It is the small expenses that empty your purse.
The best spices are in small bags.
The needle is small, but it sews expensive garments.
Small tree trunks can make the cart turn over.
Big in the words, small on the ground.
Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow.
It is better to be a free man in a small house than a slave in a big one.
A small but excellent party, said the man, he was drinking alone.
A great sin can enter by a small door.
Who can not be trusted in small things can not be trusted in big things.
What good is a something big that is still needed to be searched, if there is something small that is in your hands?
Great things often come from small beginnings.
Eat, and small ills disappear.
In small woods may be caught large hares.
He that despises the small is not worthy of the great.
In small boxes the best spice.
Precious things are mostly in small compass.
On a small pretence the wolf devours the sheep.
Small pots have big ears/handles.
It's a big wind that blows on small doors.
There is no chapel so small but has its saint.
A man finds what he takes to be small; it will only be big again when he loses it.
Small faults indulged in are little thieves that let in greater.
Small choice in rotten apples.
Small gifts go to places where men expect bigger ones.
To one who knows no better, a small garden is a forest.
What is taken for oneself is usually not a small piece.
When one sets a portion for oneself, usually it is not too small.
One should try to get enormously benefited by a small effort.
Small print leads to large risk.
An eye is small but its usefulness is great.
The goose is too small for two but too big for one.
Where people are promising much to you, bring a small bag.
The best things come in small parcels.
A great affair covers up a small matter.
When drinking water, think about the source.
Every course of water has its source.
Life is the source of all things.
A stream cannot rise above its source.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
Union is source of success.
However far the stream flows, it never forgets its source.
Work is the source of all good.
Every source flows to the sea.
A friend is like a source of water during a long voyage.
A friend is like a water source for a long journey.
You can see the source of a river, but not that of a clan.
To forget one's ancestors is to be a brook without a source, a tree without a root.
A river that forgets its source will soon dry out.
A rich wife is a source of quarrel.
Source: S. W. Fallon; Sir Richard Carnac Temple; Faqir Chand (Lala.) (1998). A dictionary of Hindustani proverbs. Asian Educational Services. p. 119. ISBN 978-81-206-0663-0.
Source: Prakash, Om (1995). "110". Vyavharik Hindi Shuddh Prayog. Rajpal & Sons. p. 166. ISBN 978-81-7028-107-8.
Source: Shyam Bahadur Varma, ed (2006). Encyclopaedia of Quotations. Prabhat Prakashan. p. 96.
The water you collect from the stream teaches you about its source.
Learning, jewels, virtues, good habits, polite manners, sweet speech, artistry accept them from whatever source offers.
The lazy one is pregnant in the sowing season.
Without sowing a single wheat you would not harvest thousand ones.
No matter how much you eat, save some seeds for sowing.
When it rains in the morning, take the plow and start sowing; when it rains between Vespers and nightfall, put on your boots.
Don't stop sowing just because the birds ate a few seeds.
Weeds want no sowing.
Kindnesses, like grain, increase by sowing.
You are but sowing in sand.
Do not abstain from sowing for fear of the pigeons.
More grows in a tilled field than is sown in it.
All work is as seed sown; it grows and spreads, and sows itself anew.
Where God has sown it shall flourish.
Much more than you have sown will grow in your garden.
The seed waits for its garden or ground where it will be sown.
Let none put faith in the first sown fruit.
Each generation will reap what the former generation has sown.
Summer sown corn and women's advice turn out once in every seven years.
Honest poverty is thinly sown.
You can catch a cricket in your hand but its song is all over the field.
A song belongs to no one.
You will hate a beautiful song if you sing it often.
Every story has two sides and every song has twelve versions.
You cannot throw a word out of a song.
Worms don't like the robin's song.
Spread the word of a psalm and it becomes a popular song.
What makes the drum pleasing is the song.
Keep women far away from song, because it is a summons to adultery.
Sweet song has betrayed many.
Whose bread I eat, his song I sing.
Love begins with song and music and ends in a sea of tears.
Even the best song becomes tiresome if heard too often.
An old woman is not old in a song she dances well.
At the end of the song comes payment.
Enjoy the beat of other drums, but this is my song.
God gives us each a song.
In sweet converse call the righteous to thy side, learn a healing song while thou livest.
A bird does not sing because he has the answer to something, he sings because he has a song.
Worms don't like the robin's song.
A bird may be known by its song.
Bread is better than the song of birds.
Who loves not women, wine, and song, remains a fool his whole life long.
Sing the song of the man whose cart you sit on.
He sings the same old song.
Evening song with drinks: morning song with coughs.
Those who want to sing will always find a song.
A bird shows its worth with its song, an intellect by its speech.
Two guests love a different song.
The song of a stranger-woman is answered after she has gone.
The song that has no leader, goes wrong.
The fool sings a love song to his wife, the wise man will talk about his dog.
The laughter, the tears, and the song of a woman are equally deceptive.
Let's sing a song from the book with glass cover.
Sing your death song and die like a hero going home.
The "Deutschlandlied” (Song of Germany is the title of the national anthem of Germany.
Even in the monastery there is occasion for song and merriment.
When I eat your bread, I sing your song.
He who pitches too high won't get through his song.
"Hawaiʻi Ponoʻī” is the current state song of the State of Hawaii.
Hills far away are green but they often have sour bottoms.
A man with a sour face should not open a shop.
No one says his own buttermilk is sour.
He who doesn't clean his mouth before breakfast always complains that the food is sour.
No one says, ‘my yogurt is sour.'
Who has tasted a sour apple, will have the more relish for a sweet one.
Whoever has bitten a sour apple will enjoy the sweet one all the more.
The fox said the grapes were sour.
Sweet meat requires sour sauce.
After the sour comes the sweet.
Handsome apples are sometimes sour.
Envy for a friend is like the taste of a sour pumpkin.
Sweet and sour walk hand in hand.
Sweet and sour walk hand in hand.
If patience is sour then its result is sweet.
The words of the elderly are as sweet as honey, but if you do not listen they become as sour as bile.
The laggard cow gets the sour grass.
Sweet wine makes sour vinegar.
Sweet is the wine but sour is the payment.
He whose mouth was once burned by hot mush, blows even at sour milk.
Every white hath its black, and every sweet its sour.
He deserves not the sweet that will not taste the sour.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge.
A house full of daughters is a cellar full of sour beer.
Good looking apples are sometimes sour.
The grapes are sour, said the fox, when he could not get at them.
Vinegar that is too sour even taints the glass it's kept in.
The grapes are sour, said the fox, when he could not get at them.
Sour wine, old bacon, and rye bread keep a house rich.
Learning has sour roots, but pleasant fruits.
Sour grapes will ne'er make sweet wine.
No melon peddler cries, "Bitter melons." No wine dealer says, "Sour wine."
He who burnt himself with soup blows also in the sour milk.
"Sour,” said the fox about the rowanberries.
Sour said the fox about rowanberries.
A narrow space looks wide to the narrow minded.
The space under the bed is like a mat.
How tight can life be without the space of hope.
From word to deed is a great space.
Shooting space garbage is no test of a warriors mettle.
If you fill your head with pride you will lack space for wisdom.
No matter how tight a monkey's trousers are, there is always space for his tail.
Many good people can find room in a small space.
In space, comes Grace.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a cock on the roof.
A spoken word is not a sparrow. Once it flies out, you can't catch it.
An upstart is a sparrow eager to marry a hornbill.
Only heaven can see the back of a sparrow.
The sparrow flying behind the hawk thinks the hawk is fleeing.
Better a sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof.
A spoken word is like a sparrow that once has flown away, cannot be caught again.
He who is frightened of a sparrow will never sow barley.
Word is not a sparrow: flies out, can't catch it.
The sparrow feels comfortable on the thorn bush.
A sparrow in the hand is better then a pigeon on the branch.
The sparrow says: "I have not eaten... so the parrot will not eat either."
A sparrow suffers as much when it breaks its leg as does a Flanders horse.
It does not become the sparrow to mix in the dance of the cranes.
The old age of an eagle is better than the youth of a sparrow.
Better a sparrow today than a bustard tomorrow.
The owl tells the sparrow that her head is big.
Don't give the sparrow in the hand for the crow on the fence.
A sparrow in hand is worth more than a vulture flying.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a crane on the wing.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a bustard on the wing.
A sparrow in hand is worth a pheasant that flieth by.
When the snake is old, the frog will tease him.
The head of a dragon, the tail of a snake.
Do not walk into a snake pit with your eyes open.
Use your enemy's hand to catch a snake.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
The snake and the crab don't sleep in the same hole.
He who is bitten by a snake fears a lizard.
The bee gets honey from the same flower where the snake sucks her poison.
He who has been bitten by a snake fears a piece of string.
Although the snake does not fly it has caught the bird whose home is in the sky.
When the snake is in the house, one need not discuss the matter at length.
Snake to snake, see the leg.
Because we focused on the snake, we missed the scorpion.
Until the snake is dead, do not drop the stick.
A snake that you can see does not bite.
You play with a snake and call it a worm.
The child of a snake is a snake.
Pleasent words will draw the snake from its hole.
Poke a bush, a snake comes out.
The human heart is never satisfied, just like the snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
Having been bitten by a snake, he's afraid of a rope.
A lizard can't be a snake even without its limbs.
When a snake gets warm on ice, then a German will wish well to a Czech.
He who has been bitten by a snake is afraid of an eel.
Embrace the snake and it will bite you.
Don't trouble a quiet snake.
If a rich man ate a snake, they would say it was because of his wisdom.
A dog bitten by a snake is afraid of sausages.
A dog that has been bitten by a snake, fears the sausage.
Even if fed milk, a snake will still emit poison.
The snake bites the tamer first.
It is the snake that smells the rat.
Warm a frozen snake and it will be the first to bite you.
The snake that seduced Eve spoke Spanish.
Only the snake looks at its slayer.
Snake at your feet – a stick at your hand.
Restless feet may walk into a snake pit.
Although the snake does not fly, it has caught the hornbill, whose home is in the sky.
A snake that swallows his friend will have a tail sticking out of his mouth.
It is the grass that knows where the snake goes.
The venemous snake cannot be seen in the savannah.
Do not whirl a snake in the air when you have killed it; the ones which remain in their holes see you.
It is the grass that knows where the snake goes.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: I climb a tree without arms.
A wepon which you don't have in hand wont kill a snake.
One who has been bitten by a snake, when he sees grass he he gets afraid.
The cow drinks water and it turns to milk; the snake drinks water and it turns to poison.
A man's greed is like a snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
A person whose heart is not content is like a snake which tries to swallow an elephant.
The fangs of the green snake and the sting of a wasp don't really make poison -- that is only to be found in a woman's heart.
Mistaking the reflection of a bow in a cup for a snake.
Man's heart is never satisfied; the snake would swallow the elephant.
Add legs to the snake one has just painted.
Once bitten by a snake, he is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope.
Exaggeration is to paint a snake and add legs.
A dog cannot eat a bone tied to a snake.
You can't measure a snake until it's dead.
A green grass in the green snake.
A snake can shade its skin but it still remains a snake.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: climb a tree without arms.
If you can bear the hissing of a snake, don't complain when you are bitten.
Once bitten by a snake you feel suspicious even when you see a piece of rope.
Where there is a frog, the snake is not far away.
A weapon which you don't have in your hand won't kill a snake.
He who takes a light to find a snake should start at his own feet.
A man does not run among thorns for no reason; either he is chasing a snake or a snake is chasing him.
Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?
He who doesn't know how a snake smells shouldn't walk into the forest.
He who has been bitten by a snake is scared of a rope on the ground.
A kind word can attract even the snake from his nest.
More vicious than a snake.
If you want to kill a snake, chop off its head.
One who's been bitten by a snake is afraid of a black-and-white rope.
He shouts snake and frog at somebody.
Snake in the grass.
Don't tread on the tail of a sleeping snake.
If you fall in a river hang on to a snake.
Kind words will get a snake out of its hole.
Who falls into the sea will take hold even of a snake.
When you see a snake, never mind where he came from.
A snake lies concealed in the grass.
Fattening frog for snake.
If a rich man eats a snake people say, "This is wisdom!" If a poor man eats a snake people say, "This is folly!"
Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?
A remote stick does not kill a snake.
When the snake is in the house, one need not discuss the matter at length.
A weapon that you don't have in your hand will not kill a snake. Looking for something can get in the way of finding it.
An empty hand doesn't kill a snake.
A crowd is like a smoldering log which can spark into a flame at any time.
It is useful to first see the spark before the fire.
A fool's spark glows in all men.
The clash of ideas brings forth the spark of truth.
A little spark can kindle a great fire.
Of a small spark, a great fire.
A small spark makes a great fire.
A little spark kindles a great fire.
Every little love captured as a playful spark becomes a great flame.
A spark may raise An awful blaze.
A little spark kindles a great fire.
A little spark kindles a great fire.
From a simple spark there will often be produced a great conflagration.
Some small spark may yet by chance lie hidden.
A little spark can kindle a great fire.
A large fire often comes from a small spark.
A spark produces its brightest glow just before it dies out.
Extinguish the spark before the [the house is on] fire, deflect the trouble before [its] strike.
You can stop speaking to someone, but you cannot stop being related.
A porcupine speaking to its baby says, "o my child of velvet.”.
Examine what is said, not who is speaking.
From listening comes wisdom, and from speaking repentance.
When you're speaking about the trolls, they're standing in the entrance hall listening.
Think before speaking.
It is good speaking that improves good silence.
It's ill speaking between a full man and a fasting.
Turn your tongue seven times before speaking.
Repentance for silence is better than repentance for speaking.
There is more wisdom in listening than in speaking.
Speaking french is no proof of intelligence.
Spouses that love each other say a thousand things without speaking.
Speaking silence is better than senseless speech.
Speaking comes by nature, silence by understanding.
If speaking is silver, then listening is gold.
Speaking without thinking is shooting without taking aim.
Speaking, though speechless, it exercises dominion over the mind.
From listening comes wisdom and from speaking, repentance.
Speaking is silver, silence is gold.
Speaking of the devil.
Door, I'm speaking to you. Wall, you listen.
It is easy to dodge a spear that comes in front of you but hard to avoid an arrow shot from behind.
It is easy to dodge the arrow of an enemy, but difficult to avoid the spear of a friend.
If you teach a hutu in flinging a spear he will definitely send it into your stomach.
If you aim your spear at two fish, both will escape.
He comes with incense in one hand, in the other a spear.
A warrior is not a wrestler, he's killed the moment is spear and shield are over powered.
Don't ever try to give a spear to a former mad man.
The bravery of a lion doesn't protect it from the spear of a hunter.
A spear is only against a pig; against a human being it is painful.
To long for everything: sorrow; to accept everything: joy.
Sorrow is like rice in the store; if a basketful is removed everyday, it will come to an end at last.
Sorrow is like rice in an attic: you use a little every day and at the end it is all gone.
Some will learn through pain and sorrow, others through joy and laughter, so it is written.
Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face.
How lovely is the sun after rain, and how lovely is laughter after sorrow.
Sorrow doesn't kill - reckless joy does.
Only through suffering and sorrow do we acquire the wisdom not found in books.
The dog called "Sorrow," without eating, will be fat in every house.
The more sorrow one encounters, the more joy one can contain.
People who drink to drown their sorrows, should be told that sorrow knows how to swim.
He that swims in sin will sink in sorrow.
When it thunders in March, it brings sorrow.
The safest antidote against sorrow is employment.
Sin is the root of much sorrow.
Laugh till you cry, sorrow till you die.
Never lay sorrow to your heart when others lay it to their heels.
Patience is the key of joy; but haste is the key to sorrow.
Joy surfeited turns to sorrow.
Joy and sorrow are to-day and to-morrow.
Joy and sorrow are next door neighbors.
The bridge between joy and sorrow is not long. Confidence begets confidence.
Thirst is the end of drinking and sorrow is the end of drunkenness.
Joy must have sorrow.
Joy and sorrow sleep in the same bed.
When sorrow is asleep, wake it not.
Shared joy is a double joy; shared sorrow is half a sorrow.
If sorrow would not talk it would die.
Marriage without love-making means sad consequences and sorrow.
If it weren't for sorrow and bad times, every day would be christmas.
Wedded in september, widow or sorrow.
To-day's sorrow brings nought to-morrow.
Sorrow will pay no debts.
The end of mirth is the beginning of sorrow.
He gains enough who loses sorrow.
After a storm fair weather, after sorrow joy.
After a storm comes fair weather, after sorrow comes joy.
Whither goest thou, sorrow? Whither I am used to go.
Better joy in a cottage than sorrow in a palace.
Sorrow also sings, when it runs to deep to cry.
With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping.
The sight of books removes sorrow from the heart.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
There is not so much comfort in having children as there is sorrow in parting with them.
Sorrow is the seed of wealth.
A day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy.
You cannot prevent the birds of sorrow from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from building nests in your hair.
Drinks down your sorrow, but your sorrow returns the morning after.
The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life.
With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping.
Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends.
Earth has no sorrow that heaven cannot heal.
Sorrow is always dry.
Much science, much sorrow.
When joy is in the parlour, sorrow is in the passage.
Children are certain sorrow, but uncertain joy.
Shared sorrow is half sorrow.
Along in counsel, alone in sorrow.
He who loves sorrow, will always find something to mourn over.
Who makes his bed on the morrow; goes all day without sorrow.
Beauty is the eye's food but the soul's sorrow.
Two in distress makes sorrow the less.
Sorrow does not pay any debts.
When sorrow is asleep wake it not.
Sorrow, nobody dies about it.
A small tear relieves a great sorrow.
He who sings drives away sorrow.
Help you to salt. help you to sorrow.
He that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.
Need makes the naked man run and sorrow makes websters spin.
Sorrow treads upon the heels of mirth.
Don't let your sorrow come higher than your knees.
A child is a certain sorrow and uncertain joy.
Seil comes not while sorrow be gone.
He who hath gold hath fear, and he who hath none has sorrow.
One for sorrow, two for joy, three for a girl, four for a boy, five for silver, six for gold, and seven for a secret that must never be told.
Parting is such sweet sorrow.
Every day good luck to thee, and no day of sorrow be.
Borrow causes sorrow.
Friends are needed both for joy and for sorrow.
One does not live on joy or die of sorrow.
One for sorrow; two for mirth; three for a wedding; four for a birth.
Help you to salt, help you to sorrow.
Sorrow doesn't kill, but it blights.
He who has no children has one sorrow, he who has children has a thousand sorrows.
Sorrow is to the soul what the worm is to wood.
It rains sorrow on him who is already wet.
He who increases knowledge, increases sorrow.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will spare yourself one hundred days of tears.
'tis too late to spare when the cask is bare.
The poor have no time to spare.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Spend not, where you may save; spare not, where you must spend.
'tis too late to spare, when the bottom is bare.
‘Tis too late to spare when the pocket is bare.
Nobody so wise but has a little folly to spare.
Gather and spare can last long.
To him who gives you a capon you may spare a leg and a wing.
Fowls will not spare a cockroach that falls in their midst.
A raindrop does not spare the head of the notable.
Beat the drum inside the house to spare the neighbors.
He that has not bread to spare should not keep a dog.
He who does not know what to do in his spare time is not a businessman.
A raindrop does not spare the head of the notable.
Spare at the brim, not at the bottom.
Better spare to have of your own, than ask of other men.
Ken when to spend and when to spare, and ye needna be busy, and ye'll ne'er be bare.
Fowls will not spare a cockroach that falls in their mist.
Don't spare expense on the wheat and the flax.
One stupid person asks more than ten wise ones can spare time answering.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Spare to speak and spare to speed.
Spare well and have to spend.
Who has no bread to spare should not keep a dog.
Man cannot reach perfection in a hundred years; he can fall in a day with time to spare.
Spare at the brim, not at the bottom.
Spare at the spigot, and let it out at the bung-hole.
Spare when ye're young, and spend when ye're auld.
Getting money is like digging with a needle. Spending it is like water soaking into the sand.
Spending it is like pouring water into sand.
Who would make money must begin by spending it.
In spending lies the advantage.
Foolish spending is a father of poverty.
Three things make a man rich: Earning and not spending, promising and not doing, buying and not selling.
Spending is quick, earning is slow.
Through not spending enough we spend too much.
Being a swimmer and spending time in the water does not make you a fish.
Don't set out on a journey using someone else's donkey.
If you don't have a plan for yourself, you'll be a part of someone else's.
Diplomacy is the art of letting someone else have your way.
Whatever accomplishment you boast of in the world, there is someone better than you.
Complain to someone who can help you.
If someone puts their trust in you, don't sever it.
When you treat someone like a wild cat, he will steal your chickens.
He can't see the beam in his own, but he's looking for an eyelash in someone else's.
One's own simple bread is much better than someone else's pilaf.
Pepper in someone else's eyes is a salve.
Love from someone who is bad is worse than his hatred.
Most adults are attentive to what someone is doing, but children see beyond that.
Pull someone by the ears and his head will follow.
When in someone else's home leave your defects at the door.
It is only when someone kills a madman that people will know he has relatives.
Not wearing a high cap of someone.
The most desirable woman is always the one who belongs to someone else.
When you see that someone is cutting your neighbor's beard, start wetting yours.
You can stop speaking to someone, but you cannot stop being related.
No matter how much care is taken, someone will always be misled.
To love someone who does not love you is like shaking a tree to make the dew drops fall.
A friend is someone who shares your happiness and your pains.
Don't think back on someone whose name you forgot, he is probably someone else by now.
When you bump into someone, begging your pardon doesn't put it right.
If a man puts a cord around his neck, God will provide someone to pull it.
No matter how strong you are, you always find someone stronger.
Don't try to make someone hate the person he loves, for he will still go on loving, but he will hate you.
Someone who is pointing his finger to another person is not always aware that the four remaining fingers are pointing in his direction.
A naked man will often laugh at someone with torn clothes.
If someone transports dung and does not eat it, it should not be concluded that he is an honest person.
Loving someone that does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest.
He who spekes ill of someone close to you in your presence sends you to tell him so.
Where they is mourning someone has died.
If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work.
Consider the facts seven times before you suspect someone.
A teacher is someone who ploughs with his tongue to fill his little bowl with rice.
If you suspect someone, don't employ them; if you employ someone, don't suspect them.
There is no point in offering a helping hand to someone who wants to drown.
You can learn a lot about someone by observing him when he is hungry.
Don't set sail on someone else's star.
Never be boastful; someone may pass who knew you as a child.
Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market.
Like someone trying to capture water in his fist.
Complaining to someone other than God is disgraceful.
Things never go so well that someone should have no fear, nor so bad that someone should have no hope.
Don't talk about a rope in the house of someone whose father was hung.
He who digs someone else's grave shall fall in it himself.
Someone with an unrelenting heart is his own executioner.
From someone else's cart you have to get off halfway.
Be peaceful yet vigilant - a sheep will bite someone without a stick.
Don't poison someone whom you can kill with sweets.
You cackle in our place but you lay your eggs at someone else's place.
If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars? If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
Preventing someone from falling is better than helping him get up.
Don't trust someone who tells you all of his troubles and keeps you from all of his joys.
He who digs a pit for someone else, often falls into it himself.
It is easy for someone to talk about fasting when he has a full belly.
It is wisdom to prevent someone from whom one cannot accept repayment to have access to one's valuable possessions.
If someone sweats for you, you change his shirt.
Don't borrow someone else's nose to breathe with.
When you point your finger at someone, look where the other fingers point.
If someone isn't handsome by nature, it's useless for them to wash over and over again.
Someone who speaks about "my inferiors” doesn't have them.
When the screech-owl sings, you can try to go to work for someone else if you're working for a bad owner.
If you wish someone evil, give him a horse, and if you wish him more evil, give him two horses.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
If we remember the quarrels and mistakes of yesterday, we will never have someone to party together with us.
Let someone else sing your praise.
Once you lost the trust of someone, it is almost impossible to gain it back.
The laughter of someone pining for his beloved is like that of someone who is always crying.
Someone who doesn't want to be responsible for his doing.
Someone who expect to become someone that beyond him.
Someone who wish something impossible.
Someone will be remembered by his accolades.
There is always someone who loves you, and someone who hates you.
One searches for someone else's donkey while singing songs.
A fool is someone who trusts another fool.
It is foolish for someone to remain thirsty when he is in the midst of water.
If you wait for the roasted liver to cool it will get cold in someone else's mouth.
Nobody is to eat the morsel of someone else.
Don't despise someone for telling the truth.
Do not sweep someone else's home while yours is dirty.
A good man does not take what belongs to someone else.
On your own donkey it is quicker than on someone else's racehorse.
A friend is someone who walks by your side.
A friend is someone you share the path with.
Never ask a favor of someone till they have had their dinner.
When someone is going downhill everyone likes to give them a kick.
He avoided the fly and swallowed the spider.
You must kill the spider to get rid of the cobweb.
If you want to live and thrive, let the spider run alive.
When the webs of the spider join, they can trap a lion.
When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion.
When spider webs unite, they tie up a lion.
The spider that knows what it will gain sits waiting patiently in its web. The praying mantis is never tired waiting all day.
When the bee sucks, it makes honey, when the spider, poison.
Where the bee sucks honey the spider sucks poison.
Spider an' fly no make bargain.
One doesn't tell a man ‘go away' but one shows him something so he will go.
A man who has eaten something becomes shy.
A good deed is something one returns.
One who sees something good must narrate it.
Love for something makes a man blind and deaf.
If something that was going to chop off your head only knocked off your cap, you should be grateful.
If a woman hears that something unusual is going on in heaven, she would find a ladder to go and look.
A stirring foot always gets something, even if it's only a thorn.
Don't say everything you want to say lest you hear something you would not like to hear.
A stout bearded woman always bears something malicious.
It is nothing for one to know something unless another knows you know it.
The pleasure of finding something is worth more than what you find.
Under the sackcloth there is something else.
Something done at the wrong time should be regarded as not done.
There is no beard so well shaven but another barber will find something more to shave from it.
Everything is good for something.
If I know I will die tomorrow, I can still learn something tonight.
Teach your tongue to say "I don't know” instead of to make up something.
Throwing the hat at something.
Expecting something bigger, and we let go what we already have.
Where something is thin, that's where it tears.
Every woman has something of a witch about her.
When you come back from a long journey, offer your family something though it be only a stone.
There is no evil that comes without something good.
Even the bottom of a basket finds something to hold.
He who fears something gives it power over him.
If you are afraid of something, you give it power over you.
Manage with bread and salted butter until God brings something to eat with it.
In every false step there is something good.
He who upsets something should know how to put it back again.
He who prays a lot is afraid of something.
People who do not mend things first will never produce something.
When a poor man gets something he boasts of his new wealth.
One who walks with no reason is not like one who sits without reason, the one who walks might pick up something.
If you see something and say nothing, you will have nothing to suffer for.
When an oxhorn of a news man is sounded, something is wrong.
Better to write down something one time than to read something ten times.
You can mirror something from other people; you can only give out that which is your own.
If you see an animal running in the early morning know that it is running away from something more scarily than the due.
If you don't stand for something, you will fall for something.
If you are building something and a nail breaks, should you stop building altogether, or should you change the nail?
He who is first to receive something forgets when his friend will receive their share.
A man never becomes an orator if he has something to say.
Home is not a structure, but something in your heart.
Better to say nothing, than to say something not to the purpose.
Keep something for the sore foot.
The scraping hen will get something; the crouching hen nothing.
Always something new, seldom something good.
Be silent, or say something better than silence.
Better something than nothing at all.
Something to everyone is good division.
When wealth is lost, nothing is lost; when health is lost, something is lost; when character is lost, all is lost!
From walking -- something; from sitting -- nothing.
You will see something as surely as a pig will see heaven.
It's easy to throw something into the river but hard to get it out again.
If you give a man nuts then give him something to crack them with.
A mill and a wife are always in want of something.
Stones or bread, one must have something in hand for the dogs.
No day in which you learn something is a complete loss.
Save something for the man that rides on the white horse.
He that is good for something is the ass of the public.
Don't extinguish something that does not burn you.
The drunkard thinks of only one thing and the barman of something else.
He who puts off something will lose it.
Who seeks something will get that.
Who starts something has to finish it.
If you stash, you have something to withdraw.
If you reach for something that is far too good for you, it is not going to end well.
When something has been denied of you, you can still do it once.
Having something on your liver.
He that finds something before it is lost, will die before he is sick.
He that spares something to-day will have something to-morrow.
Describe, usually with regret, something that has already happenned and is irreversible.
A person who wish for something impossible.
To get something one silently wishes for.
A person who is extremely cautious in doing something.
Something well cared for lasts two centuries.
No money is taken for just looking at somebody or something.
You don't get something for nothing.
An old loan repaid is like finding something new.
If you are going to do something carelessly, it is better to give it up entirely.
Confide in a woman and a magpie if you want something to be broadcast.
The secret of patience is doing something else in the meantime.
Do not hesitate or you will be left in between doing something, having something and being nothing.
Everyone who is successful must have dreamed of something.
If a man is to do something more than human, he must have more than human powers.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
Never make fun of a ferengi's mother... Insult something he cares about instead.
A sound mind in a sound body.
Death does not sound a trumpet.
You cannot wage war without the sound of gunpowder.
Listen to the sound of the river and you will get a trout.
Kettledrum's sound is nice when heard from afar.
He that would keep his eye sound must tie up his hand.
If a bamboo tube makes a loud sound, it is empty.
When he opens up his path, may he carry me along, safe and sound.
If you sell a drum in your own village, you get the money and keep the sound.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
The sound of a church bell at times has more effect than a sermon.
He that takes the devil into his boat must carry him over the sound.
Empty vessels make the most sound.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
The fuller the cask, the duller its sound.
A loud voice can make even the truth sound foolish.
Drums sound loud because they are hollow.
The chamber-bell is the worst sound one have in his ears.
He did hear the sound of the bell, but doesn't know where the clapper hangs.
There is plenty of sound in an empty barrel.
The empty vessel makes the greatest sound.
A cracked bell will never be sound.
Where the river makes a sound, you can be sure it's carrying water.
Broken friendships can be soldered, but never sound.
Knock on the sky and Listen to the sound.
Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant, it is still blown by a man's mouth.
When the bells are in water they can't make any sound.
There is a wise reason why a cock can't sound like a turkey.
Sound advice had better be welcome.
A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound.
Empty barrels give the most sound.
Men are like bagpipes: no sound comes from them till they're full.
Broken friendship may be soldered but can never be made sound.
Empty vessels make the greatest sound.
The wolf is not afraid of the dog, but he doesn't like the sound of his barking.
Empty vessels make the most sound.
Who hears but one bell hears but one sound.
Hares are not caught by the sound of the drum.
An empty barrel makes the greatest sound.
What does one hand have? Two hands make a sound.
There wasn't a sound to be heard. You could have heard a pin drop.
He who has shipped the devil, must carry him over the sound.
The kite's malady, its wings broken and its beak sound.
An empty vessel makes the most sound.
Harsh is the voice which would dismiss us, but sweet is the sound of welcome.
The counsel of the aged is sound.
Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant.
A full bottle makes no sound; a half-bottle sloshes around.
If you wait for the downfall of the king, god will not make it sound.
Either fight not with priests or beat them to death.
Empty casks make the most sound.
The wolf is not afraid of the dog, but he doesn't like the sound of his barking.
A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound.
The way you call into the mountain is the way the echo will sound.
In the ocean, one does not need to sow water.
If you sow arrows, you will reap sorrows.
As you sow, so you reap.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
It will come back, said the man, when he gave his sow pork.
Sow early and mow early.
Whatever you sow, you reap.
Great cry and little wool, as the man said who shaved the sow.
Sow good and you'll reap good; sow bad and you'll reap bad. You don't have to cut down a tree to get its fruit.
With fortune on your side you can sow salt and harvest grass.
You a lady, I a lady, who is to put the sow out of doors?
No need to plough and sow madmen, they grow by themselves.
A still sow eats up all the draff.
He who is frightened of a sparrow will never sow barley.
Some sow, others read.
What you sow, so shall you reap.
The harvest of a whole year depends on what you sow in the springtime.
Sow much, reap much; sow little, reap little.
You can never sow rice and expect to harvest maize.
I don't sow ground nuts when the monkey is watching.
You need not grease a fat sow.
The dog has returned to his vomit again, and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.
The fat sow knows not what the hungry sow suffers.
A sow may whistle, though it has an ill mouth for it.
A sow may find an acorn as well as a hog.
We must sow even after a bad harvest.
Much noise and little wool, said the devil, when he was shearing the sow.
When the sow is satisfied she throws the trough away.
As you sow, you shall reap.
If you do not sow in the spring you will not reap in the autumn.
What you reap is what you sow.
A still Sow eats all the Draff.
They that sow the wind, shall reap the whirlwind.
The still sow eats up a' draff.
Great cry and little wool, as the devil said when he sheared the sow.
Sow with the Sirocco but not with the North wind.
Sow fava bean and flax with confidence while you still have a full silo.
You reap what you sow.
As you sow, you shall reap.
Sow not money on the sea, lest it sink.
A sow is always dreaming of bran.
You harvest what you sow.
You will reap whatever you sow.
Sow dry and set wet.
An ass is beautiful in the eyes of an ass; a sow in those of a sow; and every race is attractive to itself.
To the ass, or the sow, their own offspring appears the fairest in creation.
The sow has been greeted with music.
To sow one's wild oats. (16th century)
You a lady, I a lady who is to drive out the sow?
As you sow, so shall you reap.
You need not grease a fat sow.
Sow thin, shear thin. (Strauss, 1998 p. 1158)
Whatever you sow, that's what you'll reap.
Every little helps, said the sow, when she snapped at a gnat.
It is not every one who takes the right sow by the ear.
Early sow, early mow.
You reap what you sow.
Sow good and you'll reap good; sow bad and you'll reap bad.
As the sow fills the draff sours.
He wad gang a mile to flit a sow.
You a lady, I a lady who is to drive out the sow?
Sow much, reap much; sow little, reap little.
You reap what you sow.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
A good son makes a good husband.
The son of an old man is an orphan, and his wife is a widow.
A man without passion is no son of Adam.
Like father, like son.
One son is no son, two sons is no son, but three sons is a son.
The son shoots a leopard; the father is proud.
Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son.
A bad son gives his mother a bad name.
As long as I am running my father will still have a son.
An ungrateful son is a wart on his father's nose. If he leaves it, it's ugly. If he removes it, it hurts.
Alas for the son whose father went to heaven.
Only two things matter in this world: a son and a daughter.
If they don't exchange a few words, father and son will never know one another.
The father may well be a horse, but it's most likely that the son will be a mule.
A father deserted by a wise son is like being caught in a shower without a felt.
He that does not bring up his son to some honest calling and employment brings him up to be a thief.
Many a good father has but a bad son.
When the father has eaten too much salt in his lifetime, then his son thereafter will have a great thirst.
The son of a son is dear, the son of a daughter a stranger.
Everyone is the son of his own works.
A mother has little love for a son who did not give her pain.
When a son attends to his father, it is a twofold joy for both; when wise things are prescribed to him, the son is.
The son of the swan is a good swimmer.
If you know his father and grandfather you may trust his son.
A hare is like an ass in the length of its ears, yet it is not its son.
If the father is a frog, the son will be a frog.
My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
When God gives, he doesn't ask whose son a person is.
The son of a duck is a floater.
work for engagement of your daughter, but don't work for engagement of your son.
Your son is your son until he marries, but your daughter is your daughter until you die.
Gambling sire, gambling son.
Rather a husband with one eye than with one son.
Make your son you heir and not your steward.
The ass's son brays one hour daily.
A spoiled son becomes a gambler, while a spoiled daughter becomes a harlot.
A mother will understand what her dumb son says.
Marry your son when you will, your daughter when you can.
When a father helps a son, both smile; but when a son must help his father, both cry.
A good son-in-law is like the acquisition of a new son; a bad one is like the loss of your daughter.
The enemy of a father will never be friends of his son.
With a mule you have a son, with a son-in-law you only have a mule.
Chasten thy son while there is hope.
Blessed is the house that has a son who is a cleric.
At borrowing cousin german, at repaying son of a whore.
Clever father, clever daughter; clever mother, clever son.
Don't blame your wife's side if your son is cross-eyed.
After all, every man is the son of a woman.
God grant you good fortune, my son, for knowledge avails you little.
After a thrifty father, a prodigal son.
Every man is the son of his own works.
God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn.
God grant, dear wife, that this son be ours.
Foreign bread is good for your son.
Whichever son is able should bury his father. The first son did not kill him.
The son of a klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
If you do something wrong to me, I forgive you. But I know that someday God will make you hit the son of a chief on the head. Then the chief will punish you.
The son of a zebra also has stripes.
There is not the son of the front and the son of the back.
The son of the leopard scratches like its mother.
If a father does not cultivate, the son does not inherit land.
He who enjoys the first fruit of a country is son of that country.
A dog won't forsake his master because of poverty; a son never deserts his mother because of her homely appearance.
Eighteen daughters beautiful as goddesses are not as good as one crippled son.
Teach your son in the front garden and your wife on the pillow.
Easier to rule a nation than a son.
Runaway son, a shining jewel; runaway daughter, tarnished.
The ungrateful son is a wart on his father's face; to leave it is a blemish, to cut it off is pain.
The ungrateful son is like a wart on his father's face; to leave it there is unsightly, to cut it off is painful.
A father never resembles his son, it's the son that resembles the father.
A father voodoos with his son and a mother voodoos with her daughter.
If you know his father and grandfather, don't worry about his son.
First a daughter, then a son, and the family's well begun.
Gambling is the son of avarice and the father of despair.
My son's my son till he gets him a wife; my daughter's my daughter all of her life.
When a father praises his son, he flatters himself.
A son is a son 'till he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all her life.
Marry your son when you will, your daughter when you can.
A son is a son till he gets him a wife, but a daughter's a daughter the rest of your life.
When your son grows up, become his brother.
Every son of Adam keeps hoping until he is carried away to his grave.
Only a mother can understand the suffering of a son.
The shoemaker's son always goes barefoot.
Better a daughter that has been slept on than a son who has been hanged.
Who leaves a son isn't really dead.
A king's son is not nobler than his food.
May you have a bright future – as the chimney sweep said to his son.
If you beat spice it will smell the sweeter.
Variety is the spice of life.
In small boxes the best spice.
Variety is the spice of life.
A cheerful wife is the spice of life.
He that has the spice, may season as he list.
Hunger is a spice for any meal.
Variety is the spice of life.
Hunger is the best spice.
Women naturally deceive, weep and spin.
They who are often at the looking-glass seldom spin.
God take you, pound, drunk out and not yet spun.
All dreams spin out from the same web.
There is no lie spun so fine, through which the truth won't shine.
Necessity teaches the naked woman to spin.
Need makes the naked man run and sorrow makes websters spin.
Necessity teaches naked woman to spin.
You don't spin, you don't weave, or wind, so where did you get this pile of money?
zzzzOne person enjoys a piece of hard cheese, a second a spun out prayer chant, and a third a door to the street.
They whip the cat, if our mistress does not spin.
You cannot forge a hammer from featherpod fluff, nor spin spidersilk from precious copper.
Spinner, spin quietly, so as not to disturb me; I am praying.
Need gars naked men run, and sorrow gars Websters spin.
Ye maun spoil or ye spin.
He who has daughters to marry, let him give them silk to spin.
Fear to let fall a drop, will always make you spill a lot.
Spilt salt is never well collected.
If blood is spilt on you before breakfast, you will shed blood before nightfall.
Fear to let spill a drop and you will spill a lot.
It's no use crying over spilt milk.
Between the hand and the lip the soup may be spilt.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
Don't spill blood until the raven has flown over.
He is most likely to spill who holds the vessel in his hand.
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is spilt.
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is often spilt.
We use to live and spill tears, now we live and build happiness.
It's not worth crying over spilt milk.
Meikle spoken, part must spill.
Muckle spoken, part spilt.
Once the cattle have been split up, then the tiger strikes.
When bredin split, enemies enter the gap.
Wood can only be split with a wedge that is cut from its own tree.
A drum that is sounded loudly will soon split.
If water is split, it can not be gathered up.
An axe with rio handle does not split firewood.
If you want to hit your mother-in-law, be sure to split her head.
Reverence ceases once blood is split.
Salt split is never all gathered.
Speech and action make the perfect conduct.
Silence is golden, speech is silver.
The public improves the speaker's speech.
A proverb is to speech what salt is to food.
Silence is also speech.
If speech is of silver, silence is golden.
Silence surpasses speech.
Lies are the plague of speech.
Honeyed speech often conceals poison and gall.
Not speech, but facts, convince.
The sober man's secret is the drunkard's speech.
To quarrel with a man of good speech is better than to converse with a man who does not speak well.
Never in speech with a foolish knave shouldst thou waste a single word.
I saw and was silent, I saw and pondered, I listened to the speech of men.
Speech is silver, silence is golden.
Married couples tell each other a thousand things without speech.
A man who after his dying speech doesn't die, bears the same guilt.
Old people's speech is not to be dishonored-after all, they saw the sun first.
A kind speech and forgiveness is better than alms followed by injury.
A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Speech is oft repented, silence seldom.
Speech is silver, but silence is golden.
Speech is often repented, silence never.
The good speech of an ass is better than the bad word of a prophet.
A bird shows its worth with its song, an intellect by its speech.
Silence is also speech.
They will be hushed by a good deed who laugh at a wise speech.
We must have reasons for speech but we need none for silence.
Speech both conceals and reveals the thoughts of men.
Many an injury comes from a fool's speech.
A heart never created hatred; speech created hatred.
A fool may be known by six things anger, without cause speech, without profit change, without progress inquiry, without object putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Learning, jewels, virtues, good habits, polite manners, sweet speech, artistry accept them from whatever source offers.
Barack Obama, Speech at Arlington, Virginia.
As the man is, so is his speech.
Speech is silver, silence is golden; speech is human, silence is divine.
The person who is rich is none the worse for being dull in accomplishments and in understanding, for being stammering in speech, or for having but one foot or one hand.
To quarrel with a man of good speech is better than to converse with a man who does not speak well.
If one is eloquent in speech
Even the hills nod in agreement
If one is harsh in words
Even the hills grimace in anger.
The worst kind of person is one whose power of speech is greater than his power of thought.
Slow speech and stiff tongue like Moses had.
The depth of a speech comes with jaws.
You must judge a woman by the taste of her soup.
From all the fish in the pot you can only make one soup.
If it were ever to rain soup, the poor would only have forks.
Words will not pollute the soup.
Cheap meat never makes a good soup.
When there are two cooks, the soup becomes either salty or saltless.
In your neighbors' soup there is always one fatty morsel.
Where there are too many cooks the soup will be too salty.
Worries go down better with soup than without.
Drink a glass of wine after your soup and you will be stealing a ruble from the doctor.
The sat one doesn't understand the hungry one: for one the soup is too thin, for the other - the pearls are too small.
The soup makes the soldier.
The less soup, the more spoons.
Chickens can't speak well of their own soup.
That which you put into your soup kettle, comes latter onto your spoon.
One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food.
An old hen makes strong soup.
The soup would be none the worse for more meat.
He who burns his mouth on the soup will blow on a cold fish dish.
The blood soup made of one palm nut is shared in little drops.
Until a crab finds itself in a very hot pot of soup, it will never understand that water can be both cold and hot.
Between the hand and the lip the soup may be spilt.
Uneaten soup and burned mouth.
Of soup and love, the first is the best.
From plate to mouth you miss the soup.
Beauty does not season soup.
He is not an honest man who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company that the soup is hot.
Many cooks put too much salt in the soup, food.
Everybody joins to blame or condemn a child who overthrows the pot of soup.
The beauty of a housewife will not put more fat into the soup.
A spoon does not know the taste of soup, nor a learned fool the taste of wisdom.
He who cooks the soup must eat it up himself.
Who has burnt himself with soup will blow on water as well.
One cannot make soup out of beauty.
A good wife and a wholesome cabbage soup, what more could you want?
He is not honest who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company the soup is hot.
The best way to eat hot soup is little by little.
Chickens don't praise their own soup.
He who eats globefish soup is a fool; so is he who does not.
If a man makes soup of his tears, ask him not for broth.
It's not the aroma of the soup that tells you whether it's sweet or not, but it's the tongue's taste.
A man who touches the bottom of a soup plate with a ball of foofoo is no longer searching for soup.
He who eats an egg foregoes a future meal of chicken soup.
Better no spoon than no soup.
He who has once burnt his mouth always blows his soup.
When there are two cooks, the soup will be either too salty or tasteless.
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is lost.
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is spilt.
Worries go down better with soup.
Cheap meat yields dilute soup.
The black soup is still ahead.
Soup is not eaten as hot as it is cooked.
Don't scald your lips on another's soup.
When a soup is unpalatable, and the paste of the pounded yam that goes with it is not smooth, that is the time to know a man who loves to eat pounded yam.
If one would not eat pounded yam for its own sake, one can still eat it for the sake of the soup that goes with it.
More than one mother can make tasty soup.
Misfortune of soup made of shanks and feet.
The brave eat the soup, the timid die of hunger.
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is often spilt.
The best soup is made of old meat.
You do not drink soup with a knife.
Having a good wife and rich cabbage soup, seek not other things.
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is lost.
You are not being honest if you burn your tongue and don't tell everyone else that the soup is hot.
The more chefs, the worse the soup.
There they stared each other like the cats of Mustamäki waiting for the fish soup.
He who burnt himself with soup blows also in the sour milk.
The more cooks the worse soup.
Worries go better with soup than without.
Worries wash away better with soup.
Success to you! God speed the craft! as the hangman said to the judge.
The steed does not retain its speed forever.
Youth sheds many a skin. The steed does not retain its speed forever.
He that enquires all opinions, comes ill speed.
Who has, let him thereof take heed; love wanes, misfortune comes with speed.
Speed and accuracy do not agree.
Good take heed doth surely speed.
Of hasty counsel take good heed, for haste is very rarely speed.
Hasty speed don't oft succeed.
It is hasty speed that doesn't succeed.
Most haste, worst speed.
Speed will get you nowhere if you are headed in the wrong direction.
More haste, less speed.
Fool hast is no speed.
He that spares to speak, spares to speed.
Don't look for speed in a cheap horse; be content if it neighs.
Who rides first, controls the speed.
Make no more haste than good speed.
Haste and speed are rarely good.
The more haste the worse speed.
Spare to speak and spare to speed.
One must not confuse speed with haste.
The more haste, the less speed.
It is only one bad palm tree that spoils the whole lot of palm wine.
One bad eye spoils the other.
A little gall spoils much honey.
One scabby sheep spoils a flock.
Too much spoils and too little is not enough.
The rotten apple spoils its companion.
A rotten coconut in a heap spoils the wholesome ones.
One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel.
Butter spoils no meat, and moderation injures no cause.
He that laughs at his ain joke spoils the sport o't.
Enough is enough, and too much spoils.
Happiness that lasts too long spoils the heart.
It is not the owner, trampling his own field, that spoils it.
One rotten apple spoils the other.
It's good to hope, it's the waiting that spoils it.
A job feeds a man, laziness spoils him.
A little impatience spoils great plans.
A bad coconut spoils the good ones.
Too much zeal spoils all.
A doubtful bargain spoils the stomach.
Conversation is food for the soul.
Thick body, weak soul.
A little body often harbours a great soul.
If the family is together, the soul is in the right place.
Conscience is the voice of the soul.
No sin is hidden to the soul.
When the sculptor is dead his statues ask him for a soul.
One washes the body in vain if one does not wash the soul.
Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bone.
Even a one-inch insect has a half-inch soul.
The character of a man lies not in his body but in his soul.
The soul of a rich man has no taboos.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
The soul of a fool is always dancing on the tip of his tongue.
The will is the soul of the work.
A man is no more encumbered by his soul than the steed by his bridle or the lake by the swan.
True friendship is like one soul living in two bodies.-.
My chest locked, my soul safe.
What soap is for the body, tears are for the soul.
The meat-biting tooth is in the mouth; the man-biting tooth is in the soul.
The soul is retained in it only by the prayer.
Confession is good for the soul.
The soul belongs to God, and possessions to their owners.
The soul to God, and the body to the earth.
Man is after money, but money is after his soul.
The growth of love is the essence within the soul.
The soul goes to God, the body to the earth, and belongings to those to whom they should go.
What soap is to the body, laughter is to the soul.
The eyes are the mirror of the soul.
The boor looks after a cent as the devil after a soul.
Nobility of soul is more honourable than nobility of birth.
Hope is the dream of a soul awake.
Your body belongs to the Tsar, your soul to God, and your back to the squire.
A stranger's soul is like a dark forest.
The mouse that only trusts to one poor hole, Can never be a mouse of any soul.
Rejoice not ever at tidings of ill, but glad let thy soul be in good.
The soul is not where it lives, but where it loves.
The soul of a three year old until a hundred.
The eyes are the mirror of the soul.
Better to satisfy the body than to tarnish the soul.
Heaven lent you a soul Earth will lend a grave.
The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes didn't have tears.
A good smile shows how happy the soul is.
Those who never protect the values of their ancestors their soul will never rest peacefully.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Prayer is food for the soul.
Time is the soul of business.
The eyes are the window of the soul.
Confession is good for the soul.
A little body doth often harbour a great soul.
The soul will only be at rest when it stops hoping.
The soul of an idiot is always dancing on the end of his tongue.
If I had two loaves of bread, I would sell one and buy hyacinths, for they would feed my soul.
Eating and drinking holds body and soul together.
If you go to court leave your soul at home.
Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer.
My life and soul at your service, but not the pack-saddle.
It is worse to be sick in the soul than in body.
His soul comes to him only to sleep there.
Order is the soul of everything.
A quarrel between brothers costs soul and life.
Little troubles the eye, but far lesse the soul.
Your soul to God, your body to dust, your property to your relatives, because thus it has been found written.
Blessed is the one who cares for his soul.
Timely rain cheers my soul; water and sun during seeding, inspires hope; the rains of April and May are late at night; then the good mornings, will be the wealth of the houses.
The most important thing you have to do is to save your soul.
When you enter a great enterprise, free your soul from weakness.
You can wash your body but not your soul.
A wounded soul is difficult to heal.
The body is a sponge, the soul an abyss.
Like soap for the body so are tears for the soul.
A healthy soul cannot live in a dry body.
Silence is the soul of all things.
As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far place.
Heart with pepper, soul with garlic.
Habits don't expire until the soul expires.
Hope won't be cut from the soul that has not expired.
Sorrow is to the soul what the worm is to wood.
What the abbot of Bamba cannot eat he gives away for the good of his soul.
Let those pater nosters be for your own soul.
My life and soul, but not my pack-saddle.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
When the soul hungers, even bitter things taste sweet.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1044)
Variety is the soul of pleasure. (Aphra Behn)
A salesman has pig's soul, sheep's brain and dog's conscience.
Another person's soul is [in] darkness.
Real success is success of the soul.
When all things spoke the potato said, ‘set me warm, dig me warm, eat me warm, that's all i want.'
Speak, for God spoke to Moses.
A vagabond monk never spoke well of his convent.
The snake that seduced Eve spoke Spanish.
Of runes they spoke, and the reading of runes was little withheld from their lips.
You spoke with your own mouth.
The ox spoke and said "Moo."
The highest spoke in fortune's wheel may soon turn lowest.
I'll put a spoke among your wheels.
If a man knew where he would fall, he would spread straw there first.
Spread the word of a psalm and it becomes a popular song.
A poor man's table is soon spread.
Spread your mantle only as you can draw it.
Abundance does not spread; famine does.
Do not spread your corn to dry at an enemy's door.
If there had been no poverty in europe, then the white man would not have come and spread his clothes in africa.
Wealth is but dung, useful only when spread about.
You can't spread a net to catch a bird that is watching you.
Money is like muck – no good till spread.
Our examples are like seeds on a windy day, they spread far and wide.
Ten tongues that spread the word are worth less than two eyes that have seen, and two eyes that have seen are worth less than one hand that feels.
Abundance does not spread; famine does.
Never spread your corn to dry before the door of a saintly man.
Money is like muck, not good except it be spread. (Francis Bacon)
The strong man's sport is the sickly man's death.
To a young heart everything is sport.
He that laughs when he is alone will make sport in company.
Earnestness and sport go well together.
He that laughs at his ain joke spoils the sport o't.
What's sport to you is death to us.
Said in sport, meant in earnest.
The mair mischief the better sport.
He that canna make sport shou'd mar nane.
Sport as you may while the master's away.
What is sport to the cat is death to the mouse.
By seeing one spot you know the entire leopard.
A chick that will grow into a cock can be spotted the very day it hatches.
Wherever there is a pretty spot, the devil plants a monastery or a lord.
Better a blush in the face than a spot in the heart.
A spot shows most on the finest cloth.
It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
The spot that makes the warrior benkei cry.
When a deceiving man tells you to climb a tree, tell him to climb it first. If he finds a comfortable spot you can follow him.
You don't have to lie down at the spot where your enemy has thrown you.
Win a bet of your friend, and drink it on the spot.
It is far easier to spot faults in another than virtues in oneself.
Win a game of your friend, and drink the money on the spot.
Don't be afraid of a spot that can be removed with water.
The spot will come out in the washing.
A cow is not called dappled unless she has a spot.
Everyone thinks his own spit tastes good.
If you spit in the face of a coward he'll tell you that it's raining.
Pride goes only as far as one can spit.
Govern a country as you would roast a crocodile on a spit.
A man would not lick what he spit.
You cannot put a fire out with spit.
He gives him roast meat and beats him with the spit.
A cat that licks the spit is not to be trusted with roast meat.
When you spit against the wind you get a dirty beard.
Those sitting above can easily spit on those below.
Do not spit into the well that you might need to drink out of.
Do not spit into the well you may have to drink of.
If you spit against the wind, you spit in your own face.
Pride only goes the length one can spit.
If you spit laying down it will only come back in your mouth.
One who sees his friends roasted on a spit tells all he knows.
The spit aimed at the sky comes back to one.
Don't spit into the wind.
It is difficult to spit honey out of a mouth full of gall.
Be not all sugar, or the world will swallow you up; be not all wormwood, or the world will spit you out.
I renounce the golden basin in which I have to spit blood.
Many scruple to spit in church, and afterwards defile the altar.
A man may spit on his hand, and doe full ill.
Spit in the sky, it falls in your eye.
It's dumb to put snow on the kitchen spit, the snow melts and the fire goes out.
Spit at heaven and you'll get it back in your face.
Spit not in the well, you may have to drink its water.
Do not spit in the well - you may be thirsty by and by.
Do not spit into a well-it may be useful to drink water.
Don't spit in headwind.
Don't talk sweet, spit the sugar out of your mouth!
Put an Irishman on the spit, and you can always get another Irishman to baste him.
If you put a razor in your mouth, you will spit blood.
Fear is a fine spur; so is rage.
A fast horse does not want the spur.
A good horse and a bad horse need the spur; a good woman and a bad woman need the stick.
Never spur a willing horse.
Even the best horse needs to be spurred.
Don't spur a willing horse.
A spur in the head is worth two in the heel.
Spur not a willing horse.
As both a good horse and a bad horse heed the spur, so both a good woman and a bad woman need the stick.
Spur not a willing horse.
A running horse needs no spur.
Do not spur a free horse.
Spur not a willing horse.
A restive morsel needs a spur of wine.
Spur not a free horse to death.
Never spur a willing horse.
Spur not a willing horse.
The essence of the spirit is space; there is nothing it holds to in the end.
Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
Those whose palm-kernels were cracked for them by a benevolent spirit should not forget to be humble.
Those who get their kola nut cracked by the spirit should should not forget to be humble.
The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
In a healthy body, a healthy spirit.
A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
When you have no choice, mobilize the spirit of courage.
Great Spirit, grant that I may not criticize my neighbor until I have walked a mile in his moccasins.
A calm spirit will enable a man to survive even a six-month jail sentence.
We fight to enrich the spirit.
If the warrior's spirit has not escaped, the battle is still going on.
When the shark laughs with the dolphin, there is a devilish spirit at play.
The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord.
The evil spirit of a man is a man.
The spirit of a three-year-old lasts a hundred years.
Sickness is a thing of the spirit.
The spirit of women is made of quicksilver; their heart of wax.
You can kill a man's identity on earth but you cannot kill is spirit.
Bones and flesh of the martyrs lie buried in earth, but their revolutionary spirit and single-hearted fidelity remain alive.
It costs you your good spirit to steal than buying or seeking.
A man's in-law is his spirit.
A divided man makes an unhappy spirit.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will break my spirit.
Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone.
It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate.
In healthy body healthy spirit.
Loneliness breaks the spirit.
He released the spirit from the bottle.
The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.
A masquerade is not a spirit only because of its mask.
One must have to wait till the evening of one's life time to know what gratitude to pay to one's guardian spirit.
He fights with spirit as well as with the sword.
The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
The Olympic Spirit.
If the price is the same, choose the people usually the good instead of the bad, unless it's a product of spirit.
Man's law changes with his understanding of man. Only the laws of the spirit remain always the same.
May the Great Spirit bless all who enter there.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
To make preparations does not spoil the trip.
One can't spoil porridge with butter.
Even sugar itself may spoil a good dish.
Too many butchers spoil the cow.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Don't divide the spoil before the victory is won.
Many cooks spoil the broth.
One word spoken in anger may spoil an entire life.
Don't spoil a cool place under the hospitable tree.
Stroke your dog, and he'll spoil your clothes.
Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny-worth of tar.
A wide garment does not tear, a proverb does not spoil.
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar.
The ox that feeds itself does not spoil its skin.
To spoil a child is to maim it a bit.
Too many fingers spoil the pie.
One rotten apple can spoil a lot of good ones.
Too many cooks spoil the brew.
Of bad debtors you make take spoilt herrings.
Do not divide the spoil till the victory is won.
A poem ought to be well made at first, for there is many a one to spoil it afterwards.
Hens feet don't spoil the chick.
One scabby sheep is enough to spoil the whole flock.
A market can be spoilt by one woman.
The little bird that flaps its wings too much will spoil them.
What a fool can spoil, ten wise men cannot repair.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
You have spoilt the wine by adding water to it.
To whiten ivory with dye is to spoil nature by art.
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'pworth of tar.
Many trades spoil the master.
Ye maun spoil or ye spin.
The ox that feeds itself does not spoil its skin.
One frog spoilt all the water.
Affairs of the home should not be discussed in the public square.
Home affairs are not talked about on the public square.
Between brother and brother, accounts should be square.
You can't fit a round peg in a square hole.
Howdy an ‘tenk yu, noh brok noh square.
Such awkward things will happen as going into the great square and coming back without ears.
Go to the square and ask advice; go home and do what you like.
Our elders say that at sunset, it is one's cloth that one goes to remove from the village square.
He's a fool who earns a square meal.
A woman who delivers a baby in the market square has nothing to hide.
Love grows with the square of the distance.
Another man's horse and your own spurs outrun the wind.
One's own spurs and another's horse make the miles short.
My spurs and another's horse.
Never squat with your spurs on.
Don't squat with your spurs on.
Spurs that are too sharp make even the mule rear.
A borrowed horse and your own spurs make short miles.
There is nothing for which the boors pray so much to God as that the horses of the squirearchy may not die, for otherwise they would ride the boors with spurs.
Who has love in his heart has spurs in his sides.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod, and the horse with a whip and spurs.
You can't drive donkeys without a stick, nor horses without spurs.
Always use spurs with a horse, whether it's mean or gentle.
A horse without spurs is like a ship without a rudder.
A hired horse and one's own spurs make short miles.
A woman like a horse needs spurs.
A churl knows not the work of spurs.
A horse knows his rider by his spurs.
To take ambition from a soldier, is to rob him of his spurs.
Literature is a good staff but a bad crutch.
Bread is the staff of life, but beer's life itself.
Do not lean on a worm-eaten staff.
I gave him a staff for his support and he uses it to break my head.
Who laughs at beggar's staff and roundhouse will be put to prison himself.
Home affairs have their staff, which cannot be brandished by anyone but the head of the house.
It is an easy thing to find a staff to beat a dog.
Bread is the staff of life.
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
Who hath no horse may ride on a staff.
Keep the staff in your ain hand.
Olives harvested with a heavy staff will produce poor tasting oil.
A herdsman needs a staff, a door needs a bolt.
Hire staff but do it yourself.
Leave not your staff at home.
The point is plain as a pike staff.
Chicago Tribune Staff, Charlie Trotter: How One Superstar Chef and His Iconic Chicago Restaurant Helped Revolutionize American Cuisine.
He who knows much, does not speak much.
Eat when the food is ready; speak when the time is right.
He who doesn't speak will get no help from God.
There is a time to speak and a time to be silent.
Speak not of what you have read, but about what you have understood.
If you speak too much, you will learn too little.
Don't speak unless you can improve on the silence.
If you can't give any sugar then speak sweetly.
Actions speak louder than words.
Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby.
Let him speak who has seen with his eyes.
If a man lends an ear, it's because he, too, wants to speak.
We can only speak the truth when we turn off the light.
A word about to be spoken is like a stone that is ready to be thrown.
A truth spoken before its time is dangerous.
Speak little and well, they will think you somebody.
Let the giver be silent and the receiver speak.
No word is ill spoken, that is not ill taken.
Speak like a parrot; meditate like a swan; chew like a goat; and bathe like an elephant.
Women always speak the truth, but not the whole truth.
The rubbish we speak is like froth on the water, actions are drops of gold.
Children speak in the field what they hear in the house.
It would be good to have two mouths and speak to yourself with both.
Think today and speak tomorrow.
I have a mouth which I feed, it must speak what I please.
A spoken word is not a sparrow. Once it flies out, you can't catch it.
Having two ears and one tongue, we should listen twice as much as we speak.
If you speak the truth, keep a foot in the stirrup.
A round egg can be made square according to how you cut it; words would be harsh according to how you speak them.
Never speak in a hurry.
Let not the tongue speak what the head may have to pay for.
He who lingers around will hear bad things spoken about him.
When you speak, know that which can be brought against you.
May no lies be spoken against me in the presence of God.
Never speak untruth and falsity knowingly.
Speak kindly or refrain you from talking.
Chickens can't speak well of their own soup.
Speak whenever you must, hush whenever you can.
Quarrels end, but words once spoken never die.
Speak well of others.
The inarticulate speak longest.
Think before you speak.
Old saws speak truth.
He must have leave to speak who cannot hold his tongue.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Speak, for God spoke to Moses.
If you speak the word it shall own you, and if you don't you shall own it.
Children and drunken men speak the truth.
Speak, that I may see thee.
The best of the mill is that the sacks can't speak.
When silent men speak they speak to the purpose.
Who speaks ill of others to you will speak ill of you to others.
Drunkenness and anger speak truthfully.
To deceive a diplomat speak the truth, he has no experience with it.
One word spoken in anger may spoil an entire life.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue; to the end we should hear and see more than we speak.
A dead man does not speak.
Lay your hand on your bosom and you will not speak ill of another.
Better be silent than speak ill.
One may teach another to speak, but none can teach another to hold his peace.
Happy is the woman whose husband does not speak to her.
Think much, speak little and write less.
Speak when you are spoken to.
Many a true word in spoken in jest.
Speak well of your friend; of your enemy neither well nor ill.
Of the great and of the dead either speak will or say nothing.
Speak not ill of the year until it is past.
Speak of the Devil and he appears.
Our parents taught us to speak and the world taught us to be silent.
To be silent is golden, to speak is silvern.
He who cannot keep silence cannot speak.
To speak is to sow; to listen is to reap.
Listen a hundred times; ponder a thousand times; speak once.
All food is fit to eat, but not all words are fit to speak.
To speak French doesn't mean you are smart.
Speak what needs to be said, or stay silent.
Speak the truth, but keep one hand on the sword.
Spoken words cannot be taken back.
Speak highly of the lake, but stay on the bank.
Do you speak English?
A spoken word is like a sparrow that once has flown away, cannot be caught again.
Confide a secret to a dumb man and he will speak.
If your heart is a rose, then your mouth will speak perfumed words.
When you are on the road speak not ill of your enemy.
Honey-tongued, soft spoken, malicious, and unprincipled in conduct.
Eat when the meal is ready, speak when the time is ripe.
If they speak, they are wind; if they are silent, they are gourds.
Speak plain -- call bread bread, and wine wine.
An aged steed confined to the stable still aspires after the glory of galloping a thousand miles.
It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted.
The germans in the stable, the czech in the kitchen and the french in bed.
It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted.
It's too late to close the stable door after the horse has escaped.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the horses have already been stolen.
His horse's head is too big, it cannot get out of the stable.
First the stable, then the cow.
The animal rambling in the stable makes the sleeping ones rise too.
Don't lock the stable door after the horse is stolen.
He that seeks a horse or a wife without fault, has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed.
He who has a good horse in his stable may go on foot.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
In a rickety stable the cow produces no milk.
When the steed is stolen, you shut the stable door.
It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted.
Calul bun se vinde în grajd.(The good horse is sold even in stable)
It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted.
Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen.
It is too late to lock the stable when the horse has been stolen.
When everyone is a lord, who brings the dung out of the stable?
When the steed's stown lock the stable door.
After honor and state follow envy and hate.
However much you steal from your state, all the same you won't get your own back.
An ounce of state to a pound of gold.
The lion believes that everyone shares his state of mind.
Lions believe that everyone shares their state of mind.
The state of a nation is reflected in the home.
Lions believe that everyone shares their state of mind.
Women in state affairs are like monkeys in glass-houses.
The city, whose physician has the gout, is in a bad state.
All state, and nothing on the plate.
I simply state what I have heard.
Armenian Proverbs and the Biblical Scripture, Gayané V. Hagopian, California State University, Northridge.
Criticism of the state is all right, but don't forget the nation is you.
"Hawaiʻi Ponoʻī” is the current state song of the State of Hawaii.
Let the welfare of the people be the supreme law. (motto of the U.S. state of Missouri).
He who has no spoon will burn his hands.
The world is a pot, man but a spoon in it.
Between husband and wife, one doesn't put the spoon.
Do not put your spoon into the pot which does not boil for you.
Eat with the devil but give him a long spoon.
For every one with a plow-there're seven with a spoon.
When the sea turned to honey, the poor man lost his spoon.
That which you put into your soup kettle, comes latter onto your spoon.
One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food.
He who sups with the devil has need of a long spoon.
When it rains porridge the beggar has no spoon.
That's a spoon ye'll sup sorrow with yet.
When the sea turned into honey, the beggar lost his spoon.
A camel does not drink with a spoon.
He who sups with the Devil should have a long spoon.
One who speaks fair words feeds you with an empty spoon.
When you are eating with the devil, you must use a long spoon.
One needs a long spoon to sup with the devil.
Only the spoon knows the pot's sorrows.
It's nice to have a spoon in time for dinner.
It is like using a spoon to get water from the nile.
Without fingers, the hand would be a spoon.
He that dines with the gods must do so with a very long spoon.
A horn spoon holds no poison.
Food tastes best when you eat it with your own spoon.
Better no spoon than no soup.
Many take by the bushel, and give with the spoon.
Dish and spoon cannot be without jingling.
A spoon full of skytter spills a pot full of skins.
Your memory can let you down like it did to a finn who was carving a wooden spoon.
‘Twixt the spoon and the lip, the morsel may slip.
Anyone can make a spoon, but not everyone can make the handle.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
He should have a long spoon who sups with the devil.
English equivaleny: He who sups with the devil must use a long spoon.
He must have a long spoon who sups with the devil.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
He needs a long spoon that would eat out of the same dish with the devil.
It is better to sup with a cutty than want a spoon.
The spoon maker's children have often the worst spoons.
Youth sheds many a skin. The steed does not retain its speed forever.
An aged steed confined to the stable still aspires after the glory of galloping a thousand miles.
A man is no more encumbered by his soul than the steed by his bridle or the lake by the swan.
Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen.
He that seeks a horse or a wife without fault, has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed.
While the grass grows, the steed starves.
While the grass grows, the steed starves.
Who wishes to travel far spares his steed.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
Wait, steed, to graze on green grass.
Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen.
Stable the steed, and put your wife to bed when there's night wark to do.
While the grass grows, the steed starves.
The tongue is not steel, yet it cuts.
A hammer will shatter glass yet it can forge steel.
The hammer shatters glass but hardens steel.
The angry hammer works off his fury on the steel.
It is bad iron in which there is no steel.
The same hammer that breaks the glass forges the steel.
The hurt man writes with steel on a marble stone.
The constitution is paper, bayonets are steel.
A hammer breaks glass, but also forms steel. Everything cannot be hung on one nail.
Steel whets steel.
If you put in the work to sharpen the steel, it will eventually turn into needles.
The tongue is not steel, yet it cuts.
A person can be as sweet as honey or as heavy as steel.
Don't borrow from a baby-boomer, if you borrow, don't spend it.
All time spent angry is time lost being happy.
To spend the night in anger is better than to spend it repenting.
Spend words as efficiently as money.
Time spent laughing is time spent with the kami [gods].
What you spend, you have.
A child and a fool imagine twenty shillings and twenty years can never be spent.
Money spent on brain is never spent in vain.
Don't do all you can, spend all you have, believe all you hear, or tell all you know.
Spend not, where you may save; spare not, where you must spend.
As won, so spent.
Got with the fife, spent with the drum.
Ill got, ill spent.
To spend much and gain little is the sure road to ruin.
That crown is well spent which saves you ten.
When house and land are gone and spent, then learning is most excellent.
Little is spent with difficulty, much with ease.
Youth spent freely, old age spent in poverty.
Spend Easter and Christmas with whomever you want, but celebrate Mardi Gras with your own.
Never spend time with people who don't respect you.
Better a friend than money to spend.
It is better to ride for half a year on a good horse than to spend your entire life riding on a mule.
Spent as earned.
When your wine is finished, conversation ends; when your money has been spent, you lose your friends.
Evil gotten, evil spent.
Money spent on the mind is never spent in vain.
Once you have made a fortune, know how to spend it.
It is the same life whether we spend it crying or laughing.
A wild goose may be worth a hundred pieces of gold, but you first have to spend three pieces of gold to buy an arrow.
It is one life, whether we spend it in laughing or in weeping.
A drop of sweat spent in a drill is a drop of blood saved in a battle.
The happiness in your pocket, don't spend it all.
Four things come not back: the spoken word, the spent arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
He who deliberates fully before taking a step will spend his entire life on one leg.
Do not do all you can, do not spend all that you have, do not believe all that you hear, and do not tell all that you know.
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.
A bachelor should always spend minimum time with a friend's wife.
If it hurts to spend your money, you will go hungry.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
Tread on the ball, live to spend all.
He who inherits a penny is expected to spend a dollar.
Speak little, speak truth. Spend little, pay cash.
It is approved alchemy to have an income and spend nothing.
Life is half spent before we know what it is.
Narrow gathered, widely spent.
Ill gotten, ill spent.
Ask thy purse what thou should spend.
Ken when to spend and when to spare, and ye needna be busy, and ye'll ne'er be bare.
The miser and the open-handed spend the same in long run.
Earnings far away get spent along the way.
Sea urchins, limpets, and crabs you spend a lot and eat nothing.
Don't pay a single gold coin for the sorrell, but when he's good, be ready to spend a fortune.
Eat little and you'll live, speak little and you'll get it right, spend little and you'll become rich.
A penny saved is a penny earned, but sometimes a penny is better spent than saved.
What's left over from the thief is spent on the fortune-teller.
Spare well and have to spend.
He, who more than he is worth doth spend, E'en makes a rope, his life to end.
Life is half spent before one knows what life is.
Through not spending enough we spend too much.
Don't spend the evening in a house where you can't spend the night. A good name is better than good perfume. After the hyena has gone, the dog barks.
The gods do not deduct from marls allotted span the hours spent fishing.
Do not all you can; spend not all you have; believe not all you hear; and tell not all you know.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
As you have spent the candle, spend the inch.
Ninety percent I'll spend on good times, women and Irish Whiskey. The other ten percent I'll probably waste. – Tug McGraw
No dealing with a revengeful man.
Spare when ye're young, and spend when ye're auld.
Sometimes a penny is better spent than saved.
Never spend your money before you have it.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
Until spring comes, nightingales do not sing.
A pig on credit makes a good winter and a bad spring.
There is no winter without snow, no spring without sunshine, and no happiness without companions.
A friendly word is like a spring day.
Who lives in exile finds that spring has no charm.
Sitting quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself.
A woman's heart and spring weather.
Half an hour in a spring evening is worth a thousand gold pieces.
One flower doesn't bring spring.
A misty winter brings a pleasant spring, a pleasant winter a misty spring.
Many a sudden change takes place on a spring day.
Spring won't come from one flower.
He makes the hare spring out of the bush.
When it is spring time, the grass will even grow under a big stone.
Who says the oasis in the desert is happy because of its hidden spring of water?
Even the hardest of winters fears the spring.
It's no shame to look into the warm spring sun and regret a lost limb.
If the icy snow carries you at midsummer, then we can expect a late spring.
Although he comes and cuts me down, I'll grow next spring.
You find everything when you are spring cleaning.
Big fish spring out of the kettle.
Walk lightly in the spring; mother earth is pregnant.
Those who arrive to the spring first, drink the purest water.
Happiness spring - cleans the heart.
When you drink from the stream remember the spring.
Repentance is the spring beneath our virtues.
May it always be spring with you.
Well water is not an enemy of spring water.
A year's harvest counts on spring; a man's success counts on his diligence.
Plan your year in the spring, your day at dawn.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
Those who arrive to the spring first, drink the purest water.
A spider's cobweb isn't only its sleeping spring but also its food trap.
If you don't know the path to the spring or swamp, follow the trail of broken pots.
In spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to what the woman has been thinking all winter.
Spring is when you feel like whistling even with a shoe full of slush.
Spring has come when you can put your foot on three daisies.
Spring will not come with one flower.
If you do not sow in the spring you will not reap in the autumn.
A good year is apparent from the spring.
A good year is determined by its spring.
If you want clear water, draw it from the spring.
It is not spring until you can plant your foot upon twelve daisies.
Lord, make us shepherds in spring and swineherds in winter.
A late Easter, a long cold spring.
Mother's love is ever in its spring.
A girl without a friend is like the spring without roses.
They sowed "if only" and "if found", and wind and waste sprang up.
Spring is in the air. The sap rises in the spring.
The road of "about," leads only to the house of "never." Near the spring nobody dies of thirst.
The winter is gone, the spring is come, a fly for those who us good have done.
Spring succeeds to winter.
Busy like a bull in the spring.
The plum tree, dwindling, contains less of the spring But the garden is wider, and holds more of the moon.
Sit quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself.
Only a fool will use both his legs to test how deep a spring is.
One swallow does not make a spring.
Spring doesn't come with just a single flower.
One will take someone to the spring and bring them back thirsty.
Has spring in the chest like the cat of Vähämartti.
Were it a wolf it would spring at your throat.
one swallow does not herald the coming of spring.
He has sprung up like a mushroom.
Stealing may bring profit, but hanging costs far more.
To pick up in a clumsy way is stealing, to steal in a skillful way is to pick up.
Drink a glass of wine after your soup and you will be stealing a ruble from the doctor.
If you buy things you don't need, you are stealing from yourself.
Almsgiving never impoverished, stealing never enriched, and prosperity never made wise.
Every beginning is hard, said the thief, when he began by stealing an anvil.
It is not the thief who is hanged, but one who was caught stealing.
He who has had enough to eat thinks of serving God; the hungry think of stealing.
Wasting time is stealing from oneself.
All beginnings are hard, said the thief, and began by stealing an anvil.
The friar preached against stealing when he had a pudding in his sleeve.
The monk preached against stealing, and had the good in his larder.
An old man telling lies is like a rich man stealing.
One is not a thief unless caught stealing.
A man accused of stealing a goat should not entertain his visitors with goats meat.
A stealing dog strengthens its back.
Lying and stealing are next door neighbors.
Cheating is more honorable than stealing.
When the thief is seen [stealing], he says he is joking; but when the thief is not seen, he steals.
Stealing would be a nice thing, if thieves were hanged by the girdle.
The cat shuts its eyes when stealing cream.
When you pick up the stick, the stealing cat gets alert.
If a man looks upon your wife pluck out his eye and cook it in a goodly stew. If he eats the stew his manhood will wither and fall off in the next moon.
Good stew is best to be made in an old pot.
Too much callaloo, mek peppa-pot stew bitter.
If you persevere, you'll have stew.
Better a mouse in the pot than no stew at all.
The stew of cheap meat will be tasteless.
Know, cabbages, that there is spinach in the stew.
I thought I had no husband, and I eat up the stew.
The stew mixed by many is ill-seasoned and worse cooked.
Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still.
He who really wants to die will not complain if he is buried standing up.
Never do anything standing that you can do sitting, or anything sitting that you can do lying down.
The sun will shine on those who are standing, before it shines on those who are sitting.
What the elders see while sitting the young ones standing on their toes won't see.
The sun shines on those who are standing before it shines on the people kneeling under them.
The best way to eat the elephant standing in your path is to cut it up into little pieces.
By going gains the mill, and not by standing still.
Eating while seated makes one of large size; eating while standing makes one strong.
Help the man climbing a hill, not the one standing below it.
Standing with the mouth full of teeth.
I am standing at the Earth's center.
What an elder sees sitting; the young can't see standing.
A man grows most tired while standing still.
Crotch seam rivet in original Levi's dropped due to pain from standing near fires.
One is better off seated than standing.
A used plough shines, standing water stinks.
Standing pools gather filth.
Long standing, and little offering, makes a poor price.
Come out of it standing on all four.
The old never lack for a story when they're standing in the sun or in front of a warm fireplace.
We learn by standing on the shoulders of the wise.
If the mat is not in a man's hand, he sleeps standing.
Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still.
'Tis as cheap sitting as standing.
Better die standing than live kneeling.
As long as you are standing, give a hand to those who have fallen.
A myrtle standing among reeds still retains the name of myrtle.
Standing pools gather filth.
Don't cut the bough you are standing on.
When the moon is not full, the stars shine more brightly.
The stars make no noise.
The moon and the stars are not above us, the earth is on the other side of our feet.
If at noon the King declares it is night, behold the stars.
If the full moon loves you, why worry about the stars?
Put faith in your own abilities and not in the stars.
Despite the beauty of the moon, sun and stars, the sky also has a threatening thunder and striking lightening.
Except for the night, we could never know the stars.
If the moon helps me I will scoff at the stars.
The stars shine brightest when the moon is gone.
If stars were loaves, many people would sleep out.
The stars are the eyes of heaven.
If you cry because the sun has gone out of your life, your tears will prevent you from seeing the stars.
Even a poor man owns the sun and the stars.
The girl with stars in her eyes will shine like the moonlight.
Seeing the Kremlin stars - going forward braver.
The little stars will always shine while the great sun is often eclipsed.
When you die, you will be spoken of as those in the sky, like the stars.
Home is where the heart is... But the stars are made of latinum.
If you have the moon, ignore the stars.
A sandstorm passes; the stars remain.
The voyager's path is marked by the stars and not the sand dunes.
Even the strongest the eagle cannot soar hirer than the stars.
You can't look at the stars while you are walking if you have a stone in your shoe.
He who governs by his moral excellence may be compared to the Pole star which abides in its place while all other stars bow towards it.
The light of a thousand stars doesn't equal the light of the moon.
If the moon is with you, you need not care about the stars.
If the king says that it is night in the middle of the day, look up at the stars.
My friends are like stars, pick one and it'll guide you.
If you reach for the highest of ideals, you shouldn't settle for less than the stars.
Stars are not seen where the sun shines.
Many stars cannot be concealed by a small cloud.
Stars are not seen by sunshine.
Be humble for you are made of earth. Be noble for you are made of stars.
Morn with her rosy locks dispels the shades of night, and the sun puts to flight the stars, lighting up the world.
The eyes are like stars of the sky, not so bright, but as far away from each other.
If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean.
Perhaps they are not stars, but rather openings in heaven where the love of our lost ones pours through and shines down upon us to let us know they are happy.
I pointed out to you the stars and all you saw was the tip of my finger.
Through hardships to the stars.
Lying in the gutter, looking at the stars.
If youhave the moon, ignore the stars.
A mule driver is not aware of the stink of his animals.
A fox smells its own stink first.
The garlic said to the onion: 'you stink.'
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
A rotting fish begins to stink at the head.
A much-used plow shines; stagnant waters stink.
If it does not stink, it is not a foot.
After killing a yakur bird your hands will stink.
Brawl with a pig and you go away with his stink.
A fisherman never says his fish stink.
The teeth that stink together are the ones to bite the meat.
A pig never smells its own stink.
Fish begin to stink at the head.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
Fish and guests stink after three days.
Finger stink you can't cut it trow it wey.
Eggs may be smarter than the chickens, but it doesn't take long for them to stink.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
Old droppings do not stink.
An arrow can be pulled out of a wound, but a hurtful word stays forever in your heart.
When water stays at one place, it rots.
The needle makes clothes but stays naked.
The chicken that stays in the farmyard, will peck the crumbs.
The dog's tail stays crooked even if he is buried for twelve years.
When the earth is hot, the worm stays in the ground.
Advice is a stranger; if he's welcome he stays for the night; if not, he leaves the same day.
As long as the mouse keeps still you can be sure that the cat stays on guard.
A paddle here, a paddle there - the canoe stays still.
He who stays near vermilion gets stained red; he who stays near ink gets stained black.
The needle dresses people but stays naked itself.
A cat has nine lives; for three he plays, for three he strays, and for the last three he stays.
Yielding stays war.
Not everyone who sings a lullaby stays awake.
Who stays quiet agrees.
The hen that stays at home picks up the crumbs.
A guest sticks a nail in the wall even if he stays but one night.
A guest hammers a nail in the wall even if he stays only one night.
The wedding lasts for two or three days, but the trouble stays longer.
Cooked pumpkin stays hot for a long time.
Hell must be in bad condition when even the devil stays out.
The words of God are not like the oak leaf which dies and falls to the earth, but like the pine tree which stays green forever.
The family that prays together stays together.
The kola nut stays longer in the mouths of those who value it.
A good man never stays in the grave forever, he always has chance to come back.
A strong man never stays long in the ground.
Business goes where it is invited and stays where it is well treated.
He that stays in the valley, shall never get over the hill.
God stays long, but strikes at last.
A gentlemen of Beauce who stays in bed till his breeches are mended.
Those who envy die, but envy stays alive.
That's terrible when intelligence goes and the head stays.
If a stone stays in one place, it becomes overgrown with grass.
When water stays for long it stinks.
A word written stays forever than hundred spoken work.
No matter how long a fallen tree stays in the river it can never be a crocodile.
A useless watch dog barks but stays far away.
Priest is like a signpost, shows where to go, but stays there himself.
He who steals in order to give to God can only get advice from the devil.
If a rich man steals it is a mistake; if a poor man makes a mistake he has stolen.
A woman is like a rat: even if it grows up in your house, it steals from you.
If a mother steals with a child stripped in the back what do you expect of the child.
A thief believes everybody steals.
Who steals a calf, steals a cow.
The thief who steals another one is forgiven for 100 years.
Thief who steals thief has one hundred years of pardon.
A thief is a thief, whether he steals a diamond or a cucumber.
He who steals an egg will steal more.
Who steals that also lies.
A dog which steals leaves its puppies a bad name.
He who steals incense smells of it.
The great scholar forgets about fame, the average scholar works for it, and the unworthy scholar steals it.
He who steals an egg will steal a camel.
He steals the mascara from her eyes.
A thief thinks every man steals.
A thief who steals from a thief is not a thief.
He who steals the minaret shall find a case to hide it.
A thief thinks everybody steals.
He that lies also steals.
The thief believes that everybody steals.
Who begs for the sake of mischief steals from the God.
Who lies that also steals.
Who steals the minaret will have a cover ready.
Love steals on us imperceptibly.
He that steals a calf steals a cow.
He who steals an egg today, will steal an ox tomorrow.
If love is torn apart you cannot stitch the pieces together again.
The stitch is lost unless the thread be knotted.
Who doesn't make a knot at the end of the thread, loses the stitch more than once.
Dropping a stitch.
A stitch in time saves nine.
The tailor that makes not a knot loses a stitch.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A stitch in time saves two stitches.
A stitch in due time saves nine.
A poor man does not pick up things if does they say he stole them.
The man in the moon stole the wood.
Building the fence, when the cows are all stole.
The thief makes perhaps one mistake; those he stole from made a hundred.
The last stole the sack.
Good faith stole the cow.
When the cook and the steward fall out, we hear who stole the butter.
The dishonest man stole silver; the honest man will earn his pay.
He who stole (six coins) is hanged. He who stole (fifty coins) is praised.
The more you stir dirt, the worse it stinks.
If you will stir up the mire, you must bear the smell.
The more you stir the mire, the more it stinks.
He has stirred up, or threw a stone into, still water.
If you do not know how to fish, do not stir up the water.
Man cannot stir one inch without the push of heaven's finger.
Never stir the fire with a sword.
The more you stir filth the worse it stinks.
One should not stir the shit as it will be even more stinking.
The more you stir a turd, the more it stinks.
The more you stir it the more it stinks.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
It's a well-known fact, dirt stinks more when stirred.
The more thou stir it the worse it will be.
Never stir the fire with a sword.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
How can one start a fast with baklava in one's hand.
It is not enough to run; you must start on time.
If you want to be a hundred you must start young.
The day you are leaving is not the time to start your preparations.
When you see that someone is cutting your neighbor's beard, start wetting yours.
It's a bad start on the week for the man who is hanged on a monday.
If you see your neighbor has lost his beard, you'd best start lathering yours.
To bend a bamboo, start when it is a shoot.
God has said, "start moving so that I may start blessing.”.
When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them.
When you sweep the stairs, you start at the top.
If you want an audience start a fight.
A little dog can start a hare, but it takes a big one to catch it.
He, who gives much, will soon start begging.
Do not start if afraid, once begun do not be afraid.
If you want to sweep the steps clean, start at the top.
Choose your fellow traveller before you start on your journey.
Don't start braiding your rope on a monday or a friday.
If you want to live to be old you need to start early.
When it rains in the morning, take the plow and start sowing; when it rains between Vespers and nightfall, put on your boots.
Before you start up a ladder, count the rungs.
When you have a lot to do, start with a meal.
It is foolhardy to start a fire just to see the flames.
If one is not in a hurry, even an egg will start walking.
Wisdom comes only when you stop looking for it and start living the life the Creator intended for you.
It takes two to start an altercation, but only one to end it.
As soon as the monkey has climbed a tree, it will start abusing from its elevated position.
To start a fight, one does not bring a knife that cuts but a needle that sews.
When your neighbor shaves, you start to wet your cheeks.
A minimal error at the start leads to a wide divergence in the distance.
If you want an audience, start a fight.
As soon as you have finished a job, you start appreciating the difficulties.
A one-inch error at the start can be a thousand miles at the end.
If you must play, decide upon three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time.
A person who sells eggs doesn't start a fight in the market.
The start of weeping is always hard.
Even when there is no rooster, the morning will still start.
If you want to remove a mountain start with one stone at a time.
If you want to know how the true story goes, wait till the arguments start.
Say no from the start; you will have rest.
If you wait you may never start.
The secret of success is to start from scratch.
Morning is the start of a day's work.
Don't start economizing when you are down to your last dollar.
However far a man goes, he must start from his own door.
Hold your dog in readiness before you start the hare.
If you want to perform a good jump, sometimes you need to start by taking a step back.
If a monkey is amongst dogs, why won't it start barking?.
Finish what your start.
If you don't want to attract attention, don't start something new.
If you start thinking of death, you are no longer sure of life.
Bread and wine start a banquet.
Don't boast when you start out, but when you get there.
He who brings firewood infected with maggots in his house should not complain when lizards start visiting him.
As soon as the monkey has climbed a tree, it will start abusing from its elevated position.
One who eats a guinea fowl does not start to look like a guinea fowl.
If you start thinking of death, you are no longer sure of life.
A guest and a fish start reeking on the third day.
He's ta'en a start and an owerloup.
Whether eating or scratching, the main thing is to start.
In the village without dogs the farmers walk without sticks.
Sticks in a bundle are unbreakable.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan, along comes the beetle and sticks out her foot.
The nail that sticks its head up is the one that gets hit.
An accomplishment sticks to a person.
The sayings of the wise are like the sharp sticks that shepherds use to guide sheep.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me.
There is no benefit that sticks to the fingers.
A guest sticks a nail in the wall even if he stays but one night.
It sticks to his fingers, like the charity-money to the matron.
Where the wasp has passed the fly sticks fast.
He who stands still in the mud sticks in it.
The nail that sticks out is the one that gets hammered down.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will break my spirit.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
The nail that sticks out gets pounded.
When the tree falls every one runs to gather sticks.
He sticks his nose in everything.
Poverty is a wonderful thing. It sticks to a man after all his friends have forsaken him.
The nail sticks out of the sack.
Fools should have no chappin sticks.
Slander! slander! some of it always sticks.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance.
You could even hew sticks on head.
A turtle makes progress when it sticks its neck out.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance,
When fools pipe, he may dance.
The nail that sticks up will be hammered down. (Whatling, 2009) From the Japanese, "deru kugi wa utareru."
Sticks in a bundle are unbreakable.
[You could] even chop sticks on (his) head.
Beware of a man's shadow and a bee's sting.
Being a good friend of a scorpion doesn't mean that you can't be stung by a honeybee.
Boys avoid the bees that stung 'em.
The king of the bees has no sting.
The queen bee has no sting.
A scorpion never stung me but I cured myself with its grease.
A thorn has a small point, but the person who feels it does not forget its sting.
All the honey a bee gathers during its lifetime doesn't sweeten its sting.
He who has been stung by a serpent is afraid of a lizard.
I bought the nettle, sowed the nettle, and then the nettle stung me.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
The fangs of the green snake and the sting of a wasp don't really make poison -- that is only to be found in a woman's heart.
A person who is stung by a bee fears a big housefly.
Bees sting him who loves honey.
If you wait be prepared to be stung by the bees.
The sting of a reproach is the truth of it.
It is not easy to sting a bear with a straw.
Words are like bees, they have honey and a sting.
Hungry flies sting sore.
The bee has a sting but honey too.
The bee without a sting collects no honey.
He who would gather honey must brave the sting of bees.
Honey is sweet but bees sting.
One would like to eat honey, but would not like to get stung.
He who has been stung by the scorpion is frightened at its shadow.
Three things must epigrams, like bees, have all, A sting, and honey, and a body small.
The real nettle will sting early.
I bought the nettle, sowed the nettle, and then the nettle stung me.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
Honey is sweet, but the bees sting.
When a man is stung, he doesn't destroy all beehives.
Save your fowl before it stops flapping.
Boasting begins where wisdom stops.
When the hen gets fat, she stops lying.
He who stops half way is only half in error.
When the music stops, a deaf person continues to dance.
Conscience is the dog that can't bite, but never stops barking.
When a bonsai stops growing, you know it's dead.
If one comes to a fork of the road in a strange country, she stops to think.
Faith begins where reason stops.
Where Nature stops folly begins.
A man dies when he stops working.
He who stops at every stone never gets to his journey's end.
Discreet stops make speedy journeys.
Desire never stops, it increases even after satisfaction.
When the wise man gets angry, he stops being wise.
He who steals an egg will steal an ox.
If you fall in love let her be a beauty; if you should steal, let it be a camel.
Where rich people can make honest money, poor people have to steal.
When you treat someone like a wild cat, he will steal your chickens.
To pick up in a clumsy way is stealing, to steal in a skillful way is to pick up.
Thieves never steal bells.
Anyone who goes hungry for three days will be inclined to steal.
It is difficult to steal when the boss is a thief.
If you love, love the moon; if you steal, steal a camel.
One man may better steal a horse than another look on.
Cold teaches a man how to steal charcoal.
Stroke your dog and he will steal eggs.
When a thief finds nothing to steal he will steal a dagger made of sand.
If you are going to steal horses, steal thoroughbreds.
He who has learned how to steal, must learn how to hang.
You can't steal second base with your foot on first.
If I am seen, I am joking; if I am not seen, I steal.
Millers and bakers do not steal, people bring to them.
If you steal something small you are a petty thief, but if you steal millions you are a gentleman of society.
God laughs when you steal from a thief.
If you are going to steal bells plug your ears.
He who steals an egg will steal more.
It's no crime to steal from a thief.
Better beg than steal.
It is hard to steal where the host is a thief.
However much you steal from your state, all the same you won't get your own back.
Vixen resolved not to steal chicken.
Do not steal a loaf from him that kneads and bakes.
It's fair that he who tried to steal yours, loses his.
Steal goods and you'll go to prison, steal lands and you are a king.
Cover the ears and steal the bell.
A fox barks not when he would steal the lamb.
It costs you your good spirit to steal than buying or seeking.
The problem with the palace attendant isn't how to steal the king's drums but where to play them from.
Diseases come on horseback, but steal away on foot.
A hand that has been chopped off cannot steal any more.
He who steals an egg will steal a camel.
Hang the young thief, and the old one will not steal.
He who would steal honey, must not be afraid of bees.
It is hard to steal where the host himself is a thief.
It's a sin to steal a pin.
First dig a well, then steal the minaret.
Justice is better than admiration If you are going to kill, then kill an elephant; if you are going to steal make sure it's a treasure.
The potter sleeps soundly, for no one would steal clay.
It is not enough to know how to steal, one must know also how to conceal.
He who does not teach his son a trade teaches him to steal.
He that will lie will steal.
If you buy what you don't need, you steal from yourself.
He gangs early to steal, that cannot say Na.
When you go to steal a sheep and you're succeeding, take a big one because the small one will grow.
The thief who can't steal anymore has become a Christian.
No one will steal it from you if they don't know you have it.
A man is not honest simply because he never had a chance to steal.
One may better steal a horse than another look over the hedge.
Hang a thief when he's young, and he'll not steal when he's old.
They look at the greens, but steal the bacon.
A crow doesn't pick out another crow's eyes. (A thief does not steal from another thief)
If you steal from a thief, you also have a taste of it.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
Fail to steal the chicken while it ate up your bait grain.
Steal beams and replace them with poles.
The thief who has no opportunity to steal thinks he is an honest man.
He who steals an egg today, will steal an ox tomorrow.
If he steal not my kail, break not my dike.
Ae man may steal a horse where another daurna look ower the hedge.
The store of rice in your attic is your enemy -- it makes them who have none very jealous.
When the mother goat breaks into the yam store her kid watches her.
A fierce dog ruins a liquor store business.
It is easy to open a store -- the hard part is keeping it open.
A store is no sore.
They that have got good store of butter may lay it thick on their bread.
As Maguni the Carthaginian used to say: work to the vineyard, mind the store.
In July, store the grain under the bed.
He who is silent gains store.
Store is no sore.
Giving much to the poor doth enrich a man's store.
With honour and store, what would you more.
Do not fear going forward slowly; fear only to stand still.
Fall seven times, stand up the eighth.
An empty sack doesn't stand up.
If we stand tall it is because we stand on the backs of those who came before us.
When you stand with the blessings of your mother and God, it matters not who stands against you.
If you can't stand the heat get out of the kitchen.
Stand away from dwarfs, for it's God who hit them on the head.
Never stand in front of a judge or behind a donkey.
It is better to sit down than to stand, it is better to lie down than to sit, but death is the best of all.
Herring in the land, the doctor at a stand.
The best helmsmen stand on shore.
A healthy ear can stand hearing sick words.
By crawling, a child learns to stand.
Where you will sit when you are old shows where you stood in youth.
I am a mud hut, I can not stand shocks.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight.
Business and folding screens must be crooked to stand.
He who talks to a silent listener will soon stand naked.
On which soil we stand on, that is where we carry the weight of the sky.
If you don't stand for something, you will fall for something.
A tree cannot stand on the ground without its roots.
The lion may be king of the jungle but he knows, he shouldn't stand in the way of the elephant.
Stand up, cent, let the dollar sit down.
When children stand quiet, they have done some ill.
It is height makes Grantham steeple stand awry.
United we stand, divided we fall.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand itself alone.
When a fowl gets to a new town, it stands on one leg until it knows that it is a town where people stand on their two legs.
An empty purse can't stand alone and a full purse can't bend.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand upright.
Fortune does not stand waiting at any one's door.
A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in.
Stand away from a horse's heels.
Never sit while your seniors stand.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
When a very short man causes the market to break up in a big fight, bystanders ask him to stand up so that they can see how short he really is.
The lizard would like to stand erect, but his tail will not permit him.
A lie doesn't have a foot to stand on.
Never allow family to stand in the way of opportunity.
If your part of the battlefield is covered with thorns, you do not leave your position and go to stand where the ground is good.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
Poor is the person who does not know when he has had enough. He who talks to a silent listener will soon stand naked.
Fall six times, stand up seven.
Due to the presence of fools wise people stand out.
Virtue is not left to stand alone.
Don't stand by the water and long for fish; go home and weave a net.
Where the cattle stand together, the lion lies down hungry.
An empty sack cannot stand.
The sun will shine on those who stand before its shines and on those who kneel after under them.
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
Romance/ without finance/ don't stand a chance.
A full ear of corn will bend its head; an empty ear will stand upright.
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
A house divided cannot stand.
Better play a small game than to stand out.
A house divided cannot stand.
Do not stand in a dangerous place trusting in miracles.
A man does not look behind the door unless he has stood there himself.
When the cat and the mouse agree the farmer doesn't stand a chance.
He must stand high that would see the end of his own destiny.
He who wants to tell the truth will always stand before closed doors.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
They must stand high who would see their own destiny.
After dinner stand a while, or walk nearly half a mile.
An empty sack will not stand upright.
Anger can't stand, without a strong hand.
Better play at small game than stand out.
Stand up, farthing, let the florin sit down.
A good retreat is better than a bad stand.
Stand so much until grass grows under your foot.
It is better to walk than to run; it is better to stand than to walk; it is better to sit than to stand; it is better to lie than to sit.
Anyone who is satisfied to stand still should not complain when others pass him.
He who has money to throw away, let him employ workmen, and not stand by.
Among those who stand, do not sit; among those who sit, do not stand. Among those who laugh, do not weep; among those who weep, do not laugh.
Do not judge your fellow man until you have stood in his place.
Anger cannot stand without a strong hand.
In a small house God has His corner, in a big house He has to stand in the hall.
It's better to stand on your own feet than someone else's.
Wrong cannot rest, nor ill deed stand.
An empty sack cannot stand up alone.
Look down if you would know how high you stand.
Empty sacks will never stand upright.
The mother-in-law must be entreated, and the pot must be let stand.
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.
Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks.
Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks.
The more you stir dirt, the worse it stinks.
The more you stir the mire, the more it stinks.
Guest and fish stinks at third day.
The breath of others always stinks.
A guest, like a fish, stinks the third day.
Proffered service stinks.
The fish always stinks from the head downwards.
A rat stinks, but it has its own home.
The more you stir filth the worse it stinks.
A used plough shines, standing water stinks.
Self-praise stinks, friends praise hinks, the stranger's is sincere, and may last for a year.
A man's praise in his own mouth stinks.
Boden gear stinks.
The more you stir a turd, the more it stinks.
A plough that worketh, shines; but still water stinks.
The more you stir it the more it stinks.
The fish stinks from the head.
It's a well-known fact, dirt stinks more when stirred.
Politics is a rotten egg if broken, it stinks.
Bathe a dog, wash a dog, still it stinks of dog.
When a fish rots, the head stinks first.
Proffer'd service stinks.
Self-praise stinks.
If you do not step on the dog's tail, he will not bite you.
The world's Great Journeys begin with the first step.
The wise man never takes a step too long for his leg.
In his heart a man may plan his course but God determines his every step.
In every false step there is something good.
A 1000 miles journey starts with a single step.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with one step.
Even a thousand-mile journey begins with the first step.
A thousand li journey begins with a single step.
To get through the hardest journey we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping.
He who thinks too much about every step he takes will stay on one leg all his life.
Step on a crack break your mother's back.
The first step to health is to know that we are sick.
The greatest step is that out of doors.
Lying is the first step to the gallows.
Watch your step when you walk: you may find nothing but you will not stumble.
Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise.
Eat according to the limits of your provisions; walk according to the length of your step.
Stairs are climbed step by step.
A long voyage begins with just one step.
Step by step one goes far.
‘twixt the word and the deed there's a long step.
If the rhythm of the drum beat changes, the dance step must adapt.
Step by step one goes very far.
The first step toward greatness is to be honest.
Don't step over a grave or you will soon die.
A wrong step by the leader is a warning for those following.
Do not step on the dog's tail, and he will not bite you.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
The hardest step is over the threshold.
He who deliberates fully before taking a step will spend his entire life on one leg.
It is impossible to add much weight with a single morsel; it is hard to travel afar with a single step.
One step at a time is good walking.
A well mannered man does not step on the shadow of his fellow man.
Do not step on the dog's tail, and he will not bite you.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step.
If you make yourself a doormat, you will be stepped on.
Never step over one duty to perform another.
The first step is usually the hardest.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
He who wants to do a good jump must sometimes take a step back.
The greatest step is out the door.
From the sublime to the ridiculous is only one step.
Step by step one goes to Rome.
In choosing a friend, go up a step.
If your sword is short, add one step to it.
So long as you don't step on a snail's tail, he won't get up and bite you.
Step after step the ladder is ascended.
If a blind man says lets throw stones, be assured that he has stepped on one.
It is the first step that is difficult.
You can't take a step that's longer than your legs.
Who sets a bug on its feet on the path will step up the staircase.
From success to failure is one step; from failure to success is a long road.
One must step back to make the better leap.
The first step binds one to the second.
Who kisses the feet of his mother, kisses the step of Paradise.
The lazy servant to save one step takes eight.
Who stumbles without falling makes a bigger step.
Time flies with hasty step.
See that in avoiding cinders you step not on burning coals.
A journey of a thousand miles always begins with a single step.
From success to failure is one step; from failure to success is a long road.
Dry August, chestnuts at every step.
A wise man doesn't see his foot on the ground, he watches his next step.
When the thief has stolen from a thief, God laughs in heaven.
Stolen house, locks on the door.
If a rich man steals it is a mistake; if a poor man makes a mistake he has stolen.
A stolen object brings no joy to one's heart.
Things that are stolen will really never make you rich.
If two thieves quarreled, what was stolen emerges.
Those bosoms can be sold cheapest which are stolen ready-made.
When the calf is stolen, the peasant mends the stall.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the horses have already been stolen.
Learning is a golden urn that can never be stolen.
A stolen object does not fill ones heart with joy.
Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.
Although dying of thirst, i drink not the water of a stolen fountain.
A man who smiles when he's been robbed has stolen something from the thief.
Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen.
There's no use in closing the barn door after the horse is stolen.
Don't lock the stable door after the horse is stolen.
Better give nothing than stolen alms.
Stolen pleasures are sweet.
Knowledge is wealth that can't be stolen.
A purchased vineyard is tantamount to a stolen vineyard.
Stolen things bring in misfortune.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
Stolen bread stirs the appetite.
Stolen fruit is sweet.
Stolen waters are sweet.
The riches that are in the heart cannot be stolen.
The thief can lie, those he has stolen from cannot.
When the steed is stolen, you shut the stable door.
There is no choicer morsel than that which is stolen.
Stolen waters are the sweetest.
Stolen fruit is the sweetest. (Strauss, 1994 p. 835)
Stolen things bring in misfortune.
Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen.
It is too late to lock the stable when the horse has been stolen.
Stolen fruit is sweet.
Not to know the good we have till time has stolen the cherish'd gift away.
Everything what's not stolen will be found.
The stolen ox sometimes puts his head out of the stall.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
The cow licks no strange calf.
The savage ox grows tame on strange ground.
A strange glass is emptied in one draught; your own glass not even in ten.
He feels like a cat in an strange warehouse.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
In a strange land one should always move near one's kinsmen.
If one comes to a fork of the road in a strange country, she stops to think.
You will always be lucky if you know how to make friends with strange cats.
I'm human; nothing that is human is strange to me. A good run is better than a bad fight.
Three things it is best to avoid: a strange dog, a flood, and a man who thinks he is wise.
They are people of experience who do not sleep at a strange place.
Men don't build on strange ground.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
The fierce ox becomes tame on strange ground.
When you go to a strange house knock at the door.
The ox in a strange stall often casts a longing look towards the door.
Strange sins, strange punishments.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
A guine- fowl not lay eggs on strange places.
When you're in a strange city, adopt its manners.
Men don't build on strange ground.
Do not stay too long when the husband is not home.
He who doesn't like chattering women must stay a bachelor.
Stay where there are songs.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
He who gets a name for early rising can stay in bed until midday.
It's better to be sorry and stay, than to be sorry and go away.
If you want to annoy the devil stay silent.
It's better to fly and stay alive than to die a hero.
Aim high in your career but stay humble in your heart.
Don't stay on the dew until the sun reaches its highest.
An empty bag will not stay up.
The devil goes away and heaven comes to stay.
Old countries don't disappear overnight; they stay for breakfast.
That which leaks cannot stay full.
Because of their figure, vain women stay cold.
Don't stay long when the husband is not at home.
If we knew where death resided, we would never stay there.
If the young palm tree wants to stay alive, it grows next to the odum tree.
You can buy 'em but they don't stay bought.
Let him who is well off stay where he is.
He who slowly gets angry will stay angry for a long time.
Who has gone out to the world will stay there.
If you marry a young woman, make sure your friends stay outside.
Speak highly of the lake, but stay on the bank.
A person should stay alive, if only out of curiosity.
Stormy weather cannot stay all the time, the red sun will come out, too.
Happiness itself does not stay -- only moments of happiness do.
When you try to stay on the surface of the water, you sink; but when you try to sink, you float.
Earth is like a prison: we all go in through the same door, but we stay in different cells.
Words that come from the heart stay warm three winters long.
The scent of a rose will always stay on the hand of the giver.
Better stay with the devil you know than an angel you don't know.
If you are threatened by a man, sleep at night, if it is by a woman then stay awake.
You can stay a thousand miles away from home and still see inside.
No matter how long a stick may stay in a river, it will never change into fish.
That what comes to stay has come it cannot return.
It's much easier to fall in love than to stay in love.
Life is like a boat you move on when you paddle and stay in the same place if not.
You can't hold another fellow down in the ditch unless you stay down there with him.
When you buy friends with anything other than friendship, they do not stay bought long.
Let him stay at the oar who has learnt to row.
The teeth often bite the tongue, still the two stay together.
With a king it is the same as with fire - stay neither close by, nor too far away.
We will stay longer dead than poor.
He who would be happy should stay at home.
It's better to flee and stay alive than to die and become a hero.
If the dog barks, go in; if the bitch barks you had better stay outside.
Bad legs and ill wives should stay at hame.
As long as you stay in a group, the lion will stay hungry.
April, as you see me; May, as I stay; June, as I am; by July, let everything fly.
Who doesn't want to stay with friends, is either a cop, a cuckold, or a spy.
If you want to have a happy life, stay far away from your relatives.
Keep up with the times, don't stay in the dark.
To stay together is to know each other.
Had you gotten up early, you wouldn't have needed to stay up late.
Stay a while, and lose a mile.
It is more difficult for beautiful women to stay chaste.
Don't believe in foretellings but don't stay without them.
The wind will let us neither sail nor stay.
You keep making that face and it'll stay that way.
Those who don't look forward, stay behind.
Carried water does not stay in the well.
When you stay with a careless person, you end up becoming careless just like him.
You are only young once, but you can stay immature indefinitely.
The ceiling won't stay when the room is no longer there.
A climbing plant does not stay alone.
If that man went to a wedding, he'd stay for the christening (To be said of someone who outstays their welcome).
If you want to stay at home, don't go out.
Inexperienced young men are better off not marrying: Stay away from women! you'll be better off.
Stay within your level of competence.
Only a fool will stay a fool.
Business is a two-way street.
Corner a dog in a dead-end street and it will turn and bite.
If everyone swept the pavement in front of his house, the whole street would be clean.
There's trouble in every house and some in he street.
Grass doesn't grow on a busy street.
Every dog is a tiger in his own street.
It is one person in a street that kills a dog and the street is named a street of dog killers.
Women and cats in the house, men and dogs in the street.
By the street of "By-and-By” one arrives at the house of "Never.”.
Leave a great talker in the middle of the street.
For a lot of people their conscience lives in the middle of the street.
zzzzOne person enjoys a piece of hard cheese, a second a spun out prayer chant, and a third a door to the street.
If each one sweeps before his own door, the whole street is clean.
Were every one to sweep before his own house, every street would be clean.
Grass doesn't grow on a busy street.
Old Lady of Threadneedle Street.
A nice day, a gift for a street peddlar.
Not all men who walk in the street naked are crazy.
There'll be a holiday in our street too.
Stretch your hands as far as they reach, grab all you can grab.
Stretch your legs as far as your quilt goes.
Stretch your legs the length of your bed.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
Stretch your feet according to your blanket.
Stretch your legs no farther than your coverlet.
The insolence of shortness is to stretch itself big.
The insolence of shortness is to stretch itself big.
Stretch hide while it is still green.
Only stretch you foot to the length of your blanket.
Raw leather will stretch.
Stretch your legs according to the length of your kilim.
No one is so tall that he never needs to stretch, and no one is so short that he never needs to stoop.
No man is so tall that he need never stretch and none so small that he need never stoop.
Stretch your legs according to your coverlet.
The tall one wouldn't bend; the short one wouldn't stretch and the kiss was lost.
Better stretch your hand than your neck.
Stretch your legs according to your clothes.
Stretch your legs according to the coverlet.
Stretch yourself according to your cover-lid.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
A fool's lips bring him strife and invite a beating.
Better to have bread and an onion with peace than stuffed fowl with strife.
Avoid strife with those in power.
Strife is better than loneliness.
A shut mouth keeps me out of strife.
Hatred stirreth up strife.
From a jest comes a strife.
Two cocks in one house, a cat and a mouse, an old man and young wife, are always in strife.
He that hath a wife is sure of strife.
Who gets married to a thin woman will know bitterness and strife, who marries a plump woman will be contented at the table and sleeping chamber.
The crab instructs its young: "Walk straight ahead - like me.”.
No one was ever lost on a straight road.
You can't drive straight on a twisting lane.
Don't reject the crooked road and don't take the straight one, instead take the one traveled by the ancestors.
Crabs teach their offspring to walk straight.
Let us sit bent, but talk straight.
He who mocks the cripple should be straight himself.
A lame crab walks straight.
If you refuse to be made straight when you are green, you will not be made straight when you are dry.
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone.
A straight stick looks crooked in the water.
He hit me, started to cry, and went straight to the judge to sue me.
Crooked wood burns quite as well as straight.
A much prayed for defunct goes straight to hell.
God writes straight by broken lines.
The straight road is the best.
Godamighty mek man straight, a rum mek him can't ‘tan' up.
He who lives fast goes straight to his death.
When you try to walk the straight and narrow you get pebbles in your shoes.
God writes straight with crooked lines.
An ass with her colt goes not straight to the mill.
There are many good moccasin tracks along the trail of a straight arrow.
Don't take the straight path or the winding path.
You cannot be lost on a road that is straight.
If the main timbers in the house are not straight, the smaller timber will be unsafe; and if the smaller timbers are not straight, the house will fall.
A river doesn't run straight because there was nobody to advise it.
To plough a straight furrow, never look back.
The shortest distance between two points is a straight line.
The old ox plows a straight furrow.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
In the land of the cripple everyone thinks he walks straight.
An old ox makes a straight furrow.
Crooked by nature is never made straight by education.
Hunger goes in a straight line, desire turns in circles.
Where all limp, everybody thinks he walks straight.
God made things straight, the devil came and twisted them.
Walk straight and you will not fall.
An old ox makes a straight furrow.
An old ox makes a straight furrow.
It's said straight and not talked sweet.
If the main timbers in the house are not straight, the smaller timber will be unsafe.
You cannot make a crab walk straight.
An old ox makes a straight furrow.
That which is crooked cannot be made straight.
The stranger has big eyes but he doesn't see anything.
The son of a son is dear, the son of a daughter a stranger.
Advice is a stranger; if he's welcome he stays for the night; if not, he leaves the same day.
A stranger does not share the monkey.
Better to marry a neighbor than a stranger.
Pity the stranger, even if he is rich.
Old rust is for the stranger.
A stranger is like a white fowl.
A stranger dances – he does not sing.
Fact can be stranger than fiction.
There are three things that have to be done quickly: burying the dead, opening the door for a stranger, and fixing your daughter's wedding.
A stranger nearby is better than a far-away relative.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Dine with a stranger, but save your love for your family.
Boast to a stranger, complain only to your friends.
When the brothers fight to the death, a stranger inherits their father's estate.
First for self, then for the stranger.
Let the wary stranger who seeks refreshment keep silent with sharpened hearing.
A stranger has big eyes but sees nothing.
A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Never sleep with a stranger or borrow from a neighbour.
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it.
The love of a stranger is like water in a basket.
Reality is not only stranger than we imagine, it is stranger than we can imagine.
Rather water from the brother than beer from a stranger.
It's a sin and shame, if one sweats at working for a stranger.
A fool may be known by six things anger, without cause speech, without profit change, without progress inquiry, without object putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
When you're a stranger in a land, if good comes to it may you have you share and if bad comes let it go to the owners of the land who know what gods should be appeased.
A good guitarist will play on one string.
There is bound to be a knot in a very long string.
However would the string wind, the end will be reached.
One string is good enough to a good musician.
A new fowl always has string around its legs.
A single tree makes no forest; one string makes no music.
Ye hae the best end a' the string.
A boys best friend is his mother and there's no spancel stronger than her apron string.
Why didn't the midwife, who cut your naval string, cut your head instead?
It is fairer to listen to the string that broke than to never strain a bow.
A decent cowboy does not take what belongs to someone else and if he does he deserves to be strung up and left for the flies and coyotes.
Strung like flowers on the same lei needle. Married.
Harp not on that string.
A little string will tie a title bird.
Harp not for ever on the same string.
If a woman sees a stick for beating her rival, she will throw it away in the woods.
A bad knife cuts one's finger instead of the stick.
If you want to know villain, give him a stick.
Though the snake be small, it is still wise to hit it with a big stick.
Whose stick, his buffalo.
The mule wasn't born wild, the stick made her that way.
Dress up a stick and it'll be a beautiful bride.
Dress up a stick and you get a doll.
Until the snake is dead, do not drop the stick.
If you see a man riding a wooden stick, say to him "Good health to your horse".
One who is not moved by words is not moved by the stick.
The bigger the pot the more rice will stick to it.
A stick one bends while it is still green.
Depend on your walking stick, not on other people.
A stick for the nobody, a hint for the nobleman.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
When you have no companion, look to your walking stick.
Cobbler, stick to thy last.
The cobbler should stick to his last.
When you mention 'dog,' you should get a stick.
Never poke a jaguar with a short stick.
An old monkey will not stick his hand into a jar.
Be peaceful yet vigilant - a sheep will bite someone without a stick.
The dog that has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow.
He who has a mind to beat a dog will easily find a stick.
Lay it on thick and some of it will stick.
It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog.
A good horse and a bad horse need the spur; a good woman and a bad woman need the stick.
A hungry dog does not fear the stick.
He that would beat his dog can easily find a stick.
The ass's hide is used to the stick.
Who is a piece of stick in youth will be a block of wood in old age.
Donkeys and women, beat them with a stick, to keep them at task.
It is the dog which is hit by the tossed stick, which yelps.
Can I pull down the sun with a forked stick, or prevent it from running its course?
The quail waits for the stick; the idle loiterer about a place waits for a kick from an old boot.
He that stirs honey will have some of it stick to him.
If this ball does not stick to the wall it will at least leave a mark.
A dog won't bite you if you are carrying a stick.
Calumniate strongly and some of it will stick.
Snake at your feet – a stick at your hand.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
Don't fight a lion with a stick.
You do not need a big stick to break a cock's head.
A stick one bends while it is still green.
Women and donkeys need the stick.
A crooked stick makes us know the carpenter.
Birds align with grain, but not with the stick.
Don't stick your nose where you en wanted.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, yet 'twill leave some mark.
A blind person does not forget his walking stick.
When you mention a snake, have a stick ready in your hand.
Shadow of a stick canot protect one from the sun.
You can lean on a bamboo stick, but not on a rope.
Water does not stick to the mountain, and vengeance does not stick to a big heart.
Schoolmaster, stick to your books; farmer, to your pigs.
A snake's ears only listen to a stick.
A visitor doesn't survive from a stick beat of a burglar.
Tortoises only make progress when they stick there necks out.
No matter how long a stick may stay in a river, it will never change into fish.
The one chased away with a stick comes back and the one chassed away with reason doesn't come back.
Take a dog for a companion and a stick in your hand.
If you mentioned the wolf you better prepare the stick.
Throw dirt enough, and some will stick.
Meddle with dirt and some of it will stick to you.
It is the raised stick that makes the dog obey.
Dress up a stick and it does not appear to be a stick.
A stick is soon found to beat a dog.
As both a good horse and a bad horse heed the spur, so both a good woman and a bad woman need the stick.
They match as a stick in a quiver.
He who greets with a stick, will be answered with a club.
His footprints can be beaten with a stick.
God does not beat one with a stick.
If a dog is driven by a stick after a hare, he will not catch it.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, it will at least leave a mark.
As unsteady as an egg on a stick.
The crook in the old stick is ill to take out.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod, and the horse with a whip and spurs.
You can't drive donkeys without a stick, nor horses without spurs.
The sleeping dog is turned by a stick.
I, the adhesive grass, will stick fast to you.
That dog yelps, which stick hits.
Do not show a stick to a dog that has been beaten.
If you're out to beat a dog, you're sure to find a stick.
Shoemaker stick to your last.
It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog.
A stick is a peacemaker.
Don't raise your stick and the dog won't bark at you.
He that will not strive in this world should not have come into it.
Strive to be a person who is never absent from an important act.
One should strive to maintain one's honour.
Strive to live well within your means.
Love one another and do not strive for another's undoing.
Hope and strive is the way to thrive.
Two dogs strive for a bone, and a third runs away with it.
Ye strive against the stream.
Ye may not sit in Rome, and strive with the Pope.
It is better to strive with a stubborn ass than to carry the wood on one's back.
Love one another and do not strive for another's undoing.
The bitter cup we strive to remove from us holds the medicine.
Strive though you fail.
Strive for the summit.
It is hard to live in Rome and strive against the Pope.
Every story has two sides and every song has twelve versions.
Who came back from the grave and told the story?
Until the lion tells his side of the story, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
Behind every sweaty face of a cattle rustler is a story of determination and courage.
There are two sides to every story -- and then there's the truth.
One story is good till another is told.
One man's story is no story; hear both sides.
A story without an author is not worth listening to.
Time is a great story teller.
He who comes with a story to you brings two away from you.
The person who brings a story to you will take away two from you.
There are two telling to every story.
Every story can be told in different ways.
If it's not true, it's a good story.
A story is only half told if there is only one side presented.
Tell your own story first.
Never tell your story to a deaf man.
The world is story.
If you want to know how the true story goes, wait till the arguments start.
What a story these old walls could tell.
High houses are mostly empty in the upper story.
Time is a good story teller.
The old never lack for a story when they're standing in the sun or in front of a warm fireplace.
It is not worth telling a lovely story at the funeral.
Every living thing has a story to tell.
There's no worth to a story without an author.
There are two sides to every story.
A woman like a sickle, a strong stubborn woman.
Fools and stubborn people make rich lawyers.
For a stubborn ass a hard goad.
Stubborn men make lawyers.
I stubborn and you stubborn, who is to carry the load?
It is better to strive with a stubborn ass than to carry the wood on one's back.
The stubborn man is ruled by a fool.
This is a stubborn and proud nation.
For a stubborn ass a stubborn driver.
The larger the ship, the larger the storm.
The crow was killed by the storm -- "He died by my curse," says the owl.
When a crow is killed by a storm, the fortuneteller says, "He died by my curse."
Seamen learn to get to know each other during a storm.
The firm tree does not fear the storm.
If you forget your worries, the storm will blow over.
Clouds over the moon, a storm over blossoms.
The winds may fell the massive oak, but bamboo, bent even to the ground, will spring upright after the passage of the storm.
Any port in a storm.
After a storm comes a calm.
The day of the storm is not the time for thatching your roof.
You can tell who the good seamen are during a storm.
You know who the good seamen are when the storm comes.
After the storm comes the easiness.
After the storm comes the good weather.
Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, storm and hail.
A calm portends a storm.
Any port in a storm.
The taller the house, the heavier the storm.
After the storm the sun comes out.
After the storm comes a calm.
After a storm fair weather, after sorrow joy.
Remember, after the storm there will be a rainbow.
Who sows wind will harvest storm.
Never fear the sea, fear the storm.
Sailors have a port in every storm.
The harm done by an elephant is like that done by a storm, or by the government.
During a storm you do not take shelter under just one roofing tile.
During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds.
Send charcoal in a snow storm.
After the storm the sun comes out.
During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds.
Any port in a storm.
He who sows the wind harvests the storm.
Let the guest go before the storm bursts.
To act in anger is like tying up a ship in a storm.
Gulls on earth, storm in the sea.
After the storm ends, the sun will shine.
A storm in a glass of water.
Who sows a wind will reap a storm.
The good sailor is proven in a storm.
Who seeds wind, shall harvest storm.
Sailors get to know each other better when there is a storm.
Any port in a storm.
Safely housed to listen to the storm outside.
The chilling storm is on the mountains.
Translation 2: He who sows the wind shall reap the storm.
The good captain shows himself in a storm.
Conceived by no father, conceived by no mother, the reed came out of the breast of the storm.
No one is tall enough to reach up and touch the heavens. No one is broad enough to lift his gaze over the whole earth. [...] But you, who roar like a storm -- may you establish yourself like a lion. [...] No man can bring about your demise.
The person who gets stuck on trivial prosperity will not attain great prosperity.
He who is anxious to secure the best tends to get stuck with the worst of the rest.
A head stuck on a pike no longer conspires.
When a musician hath forgotten his note, He makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat.
Perhaps you will eat a whole elephant and nothing gets stuck in your throat, and then you eat a fish and a bone gets stuck in your throat.
The crab has stuck fast between the stones at the entrance of its hole.
It has stuck fast by one of the front legs.
Pull out the beak and the tail gets stuck, pull out the tail and the beak gets stuck.
If the claw is stuck, the whole bird is lost.
You do not stumble over a mountain, but you do over a stone.
Calling out for mother, only when you stumble.
To stumble is not falling down but it is to go forward.
Watch your step when you walk: you may find nothing but you will not stumble.
If you stumble more than once over the same stump, you have no one to blame but yourself.
A stumble is not a fall.
A lucky man can stumble upon a treasure while an unlucky one can't even find a mushroom.
Remove the stone and you won't stumble.
Small ills are the fountains of most of our groans. Men trip not on mountains, they stumble on stones.
He who runs from the white ant may stumble upon the stinging ant.
To stumble is not to fall.
A horse may stumble, though he has four feet.
Better to stumble once than be always tottering.
An ass does not stumble twice over the same stone.
Better to stumble than make a slip of the tongue.
No horse is so good, but that he will at times stumble.
Its better to stumble with your feet than to stumble with your mouth.
Many stumble at a straw and leap over a block.
The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
You can't stop a pig from wallowing in the mud.
The darkness of night cannot stop the light of morning.
In a game it's difficult to know when to stop.
Life is a temporary stop, death is the journey home.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?
Help from abroad always comes when the rain has stopped.
You can stop speaking to someone, but you cannot stop being related.
You cannot stop a whore, not even with a hundred horses.
Don't stop a donkey that isn't yours.
The hunter who is tracking an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
If you are building something and a nail breaks, should you stop building altogether, or should you change the nail?
If the dog hadn't stopped to rest, he'd have caught the rabbit.
If you're in a hole, stop digging.
He that would stop everybody's mouth needs plenty of flour.
When the goat goes to church, he does not stop till he gets to the altar.
It's no delay to stop to edge the tool.
It's a good answer that knows when to stop.
It is a good answer which knows when to stop.
The election of the abbot is not stopped for want of a monk.
When men take wives they stop fearing hell.
A centipede will not stop for a cripple.
When you pull the tooth, it will stop hurting.
It is easier to dam a river than to stop the flow of gossip.
When the wine is run out, you stop the leak.
Don't stop the way of a bull or of a current of air.
If the peacock were to look at its feet, it would stop him strutting.
Wisdom comes only when you stop looking for it and start living the life the Creator intended for you.
Black people must stop acting like crabs in a barrel and work together.
Stop talking. Drink.
One can not stop sleeping in fear of bad dreams.
The bush fowl saw the chicken being carved up and laughed. The chicken told the bush fowl to stop laughing. For the same hands now carving up the chicken would be used to carve up the bush fowl.
For a rash to heal, you must stop scratching it.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
It doesn't matter how slowly you go as long as you don't stop.
If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging.
When good fortune finally comes, no one can ever stop it.
To stop drinking, study a drunkard when you are sober.
To die is to stop living but to stop living is something entirely different than dying.
You cannot stop birds from flying over your head, but you can stop them nesting in your hair.
The noise produced by frogs in the well can't stop an elephant from drinking.
The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
Tears will not stop flowing for someone who is crying for himself.
It doesn't matter how slowly you walk, just as long as you don't stop.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
Going slowly doesn't stop one arriving.
Even a horn can be stopped from fighting and made to sing forever.
When the bait's worth more than the fish, it's time to stop fishing.
To be successful in love, one must know how to begin and when to stop.
The best way to get someone to stop digging his heels in is to dig out the sand around him.
Anyone can start a rumor, but none can stop one.
If you stop every time a dog barks, your road will never end.
He must have plenty of butter, who would stop everybody's mouth.
Don't stop sowing just because the birds ate a few seeds.
You should never stop the plough to kill a mouse.
Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.
Many stop their noses at ambergris.
Stop up the hole until it's small.
It is easier to dam a river than to stop gossip.
The entrance is stopped with a spider's web.
He heed have plenty of meal who would stop every man's mouth.
Really to stop criticism one must die.
Passing the Rubicon.
When he arrived at the banks of the Rubicon, which divides Cisalpine Gaul from the rest of Italy ... he stopped to deliberate.... At last he cried out: "The die is cast" and immediately passed the river.
Stop that man, he's got my knife in the back!
When the bait is more than the fish, 'tis time to stop fishing.
A mistake proves that at least someone stopped talking long enough to do something.
It is too late for a galloping horse to stop at a clip; it is useless for a sinking boat to be mended in the middle of a river.
The person going home is not stopped by the dusk.
To be successful in love, one must know how to begin and when to stop.
Stop, look and listen.
The world is like an old building on the banks of a stream – it carries away piece by piece; in vain you stop it with a handful of earth.
If I dealt in candles, the sun wouldn't set; if I dealt in shrouds, people would stop dying.
Even though the peel of the palm nut has no pulpy substance in it, it is stripped off all the same.
If a mother steals with a child stripped in the back what do you expect of the child.
Precaution said, Good friend, this counsel keep: strip not yourself until you're laid to sleep.
Who arrays himself in other men's garments is stripped on the highway.
To despise the ox means to despise also a strip of hide from it.
A child who protested when being stripped on the back by its mother, it's humbled by the scorching sun when left to walk.
It is a cob stripped of maize in an ashpit.
Do not strip before bedtime.
How beautiful that tree is, even when stripped by the wind !
There is no god like one's stomach; we must sacrifice to it every day.
Dog has to have its stomach full.
All lizards lie on their bellies, but nobody knows which of them suffers stomach ache.
You will often see a high collar above an empty stomach.
Borrowed bread lies heavy on the stomach.
That which does the cultivating is in the stomach.
It is impossible to go and look into the stomach of another.
Every sickness begins in the stomach.
Do not look at a visitor's face but at his stomach.
Happiness rarely keeps company with an empty stomach.
The stomach has no windows.
What is sweet in the mouth is not always good in the stomach.
A dainty stomach beggars the purse.
The stomach is easier filled than the eye.
Talk doesn't fill the stomach.
A lot of people become saints because of their stomach.
Empty words will not fill an empty stomach.
When the cat's stomach is full, the rat's back is bitter.
The stomach is not content with nice words.
You can say anything to a man with a full stomach.
The stomach never gets full with licking.
Eating slowly is good for the stomach; plowing deeply is good for the fields.
An icon for the mind is like raw vodka for the stomach.
A judge and a stomach do their asking in silence.
An empty stomach will not listen to anything.
A hungry stomach makes a short prayer.
A woman's stomach does not grow if she is not pregnant.
Never begin a negotiation on an empty stomach.
Your friend, one doesn't stare at his forehead, one stares at his stomach.
When the leg does not walk, the stomach does not eat.
Once the manioca is in your stomach it's gone.
What your eyes don't see, your stomach will take.
The food eaten first lasts longest in the stomach.
Your friend, one doesn't stare at his forehead, one stares at his stomach.
No one knows if a bird in flight has an egg in its stomach.
Wait a minute! wait a minute! harms the stomach.
A full belly is not the stomach of a scholar.
Whoever rides on the lion's back must surely end up in the lion's stomach.
Don't look at the visitor's face but at his stomach.
The tears of a man flow into the stomach.
Your feet will take you away from home but your stomach will bring you back.
What is in the stomach carries what is in the head.
When a child is asleep a mother's attention is on the child's stomach.
A hungry calf cannot frisk happily over another with a full stomach.
When the cockroach decides to make the cock its friend it must be ready to end up in the cock's stomach.
Guard lest the eyes be bigger than the stomach.
A sharp stomach makes short devotion.
Army marches on its stomach.
Sometimes even the intestine and the stomach disagree.
Better something on the arm than all in the stomach.
Good wine ruins the purse, and bad the stomach.
Nought is good for the eyes, but not for the stomach.
Let your head be more than a funnel to your stomach.
Fine words are not enough for the empty stomach, it needs bread...
A hungry stomach has no ears.
Wine in moderation is a stomach tonic.
The tongue is the mirror of the stomach.
A contented stomach, a forgiving heart; but an empty stomach pardons nothing.
Every case begins from the stomach.
Even though his stomach is satiated, his eye will not be satiated.
When the stomach is full the heart is glad.
Misfortunes are, in morals, what bitters are in medicine: each is at first disagreeable; but as the bitters act as corroborants to the stomach, so adversity chastens and ameliorates the disposition.
The world is like that: one gives a melon, the other gets the stomach cramps.
What my neighbour eats does my stomach no good.
The eyes want more than the stomach.
The love goes through the stomach.
Keep the noises in the stomach.
A hungry stomach has no ears.
Full stomach, hard rooster.
Too much honey cloys the stomach.
The food eaten first lasts longest in the stomach.
It's good to be poor, the head aches not too often and the stomach ain't too full.
Mouth to ears and the stomach to knees when you eat rich man's food!
A doubtful bargain spoils the stomach.
Water hollows out the stone not by force, but by persistence.
A rolling stone is not covered with moss.
Have faith in a stone and you will be healed by it.
The cripple will always find a stone to kick.
The scythe has hit a stone.
To kill two birds with one stone.
When throne into the sea the stone said, 'after all, this is also a home.'
Teaching in youth is like carving in stone.
He who throws a stone in the market will hit his relative.
A rolling stone gathers no moss, but it gets a great shine.
A word about to be spoken is like a stone that is ready to be thrown.
When a stone hits glass, the glass breaks. When glass hits a stone, the glass breaks.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than a stone thrown at the wrong time.
You can't take blood from a stone.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than gold given at the wrong time.
You do not stumble over a mountain, but you do over a stone.
Tap even a stone bridge before crossing.
Cross even a stone bridge after you've tested it.
When you return from a trip, bring back something for your family - even if it is only a stone.
When you come back from a long journey, offer your family something though it be only a stone.
Words of the mouth are like a stone in a sling.
No one trips with the same stone twice.
Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone.
It is the fate of the coconut husk to float, for the stone to sink.
If an ox doesn't know the size of his arse he won't eat an apricot stone.
A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple.
The one who throws the stone forgets; the one who is hit remembers forever.
Do not drink from a well and throw a stone into it.
Whether the pitcher strike the stone or the stone the pitcher, the pitcher suffers.
A termite can do nothing to a stone save lick it.
As the stone leaves your hand it belongs to the devil.
To leap into a pool embracing a stone.
The human heart is neither of stone nor wood.
Even the stone you trip on is part of your destiny.
The pebble in the brook secretly thinks itself a precious stone.
Dripping water can eat through a stone.
Don't respond to a mosquito bit with a stone because you you will miss it and hunt yourself.
When a blind man tells you he is going to throw a stone, know that his foot is on the stone.
The madman, who throws a stone into a crowded market, forgets that his own mother could be hit by his madness.
The stone that everybody spits upon will be wet at the last.
The dog rages at the stone, not at him that throws it.
Bread in one hand, a stone in the other.
Constant dropping wears the stone.
He thinks that he himself is the very stone that was hurled at the castle.
Three hundred ravens are scattered by one stone.
Under every stone sleeps a scorpion.
A word and a stone once let go cannot be recalled.
A word from the mouth, a stone from the hand.
Anger is as a stone cast into a wasp's nest.
A drop of water breaks a stone.
A fool throws a stone into a well, and it requires a hundred wise men to get it out again.
A little stone overturns a great cart.
Don't bite till you know whether it is bread or a stone.
He has stirred up, or threw a stone into, still water.
A fool may throw a stone into a well which a hundred wise cannot take out.
When it is spring time, the grass will even grow under a big stone.
Check before you bite if it is bread or a stone.
The stone in the water does not know how hot the hill is, parched by the sun.
Push the stone to the top of the mountain.
Tapping persistently breaks the stone.
A dog bites the stone, not him who throws it.
A stone that gathers no moss will be washed away by the river.
Roll me, don't curse me, said the stone to the ploughman.
As ass does not hit himself twice against the same stone.
Hunger eats through stone walls.
A fool may throw into a well a stone which a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
Water does not run under a lying stone.
Do not throw a stone at the mouse and break the precious vase.
A word and a stone let go cannot be recalled.
A word and a stone once launched cannot be recalled.
A word from the mouth, a stone from a sling.
Constant dropping wears away a stone.
Choose the stone by the size of the frog.
When you come back from a trip bring something for the family -- even if it is only a stone.
Grain by grain, a loaf; stone by stone, a castle.
Moss grows on a lying stone.
A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple.
Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone.
Gifts make their way through stone walls.
If someone hits you with a stone, hit him with bread; your bread will return to you and his stone will return to him.
You cant get blood out of a stone.
Remove the stone and you won't stumble.
Stone dead hath no fellow.
Constant rubbing of a rope will cut a stone.
Don't try to cover the stone with a quilt.
You can't look at the stars while you are walking if you have a stone in your shoe.
A jade stone is useless before it is processed; a man is good-for-nothing until he is educated.
Turn iron (or stone) into gold by the touch.
Slander by the stream will be heard by the frogs.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
'tis hard to swim against the stream.
Our time runs on like a stream; first fall the leaves and then the tree.
You only hear three voices in this world: the babbling of the stream, jewish law, and money.
If the fountainhead is clear, the stream will be clear.
One can stand still in a flowing stream, but not in a world of men.
A stream cannot rise above its source.
Only live fish swim up stream.
Never swap horses crossing a stream.
If one has to jump a stream and knows how wide it is, he will not jump. If he does not know how wide it is, he will jump, and six times out of ten he will make it.
Drops join to make a stream; ears combine to make a crop.
A little stream drives a great mill.
Don't go a-fishing to a famous stream.
Do not roll up your trousers before reaching the stream.
Anyone who urinates in a stream should be warned because any of his relatives may drink from the water.
However far the stream flows, it never forgets its source.
Rejoice in little, shun what is extreme; the ship rides safest in a little stream.
Always drink up stream from the herd.
A boat that is not tied up will drift along with the stream.
The shade of the same tree, the flowing of the same stream.
When you drink from the stream remember the spring.
The spring makes the stream flow.
A gentle disposition is like an unruffled stream.
It's a bad bridge that is narrower than the stream.
Don't cross the stream to find water.
Ye strive against the stream.
Peace is the well from which the stream of joy runs.
Don't cross the stream to find water.
Where the stream is shallowest, greatest is its noise.
The stream does not pass over an old stone.
Do not roll up your trousers before reaching the stream.
Don't cross the stream to get water.
The water you collect from the stream teaches you about its source.
Don't swap horses when crossing the stream.
The stream does not pass over an old stone.
Slander by the stream will be heard by the frogs.
The world is like an old building on the banks of a stream – it carries away piece by piece; in vain you stop it with a handful of earth.
Only dead fish follow the stream.
Believe not that the stream is shallow because its surface is smooth.
Stroke the dog and he will mark you with his dirty paws.
The repeated stroke will fell the oak.
Never fell oak at the very first stroke.
Stroke the horse until it is saddled.
The more you stroke the cat's back the more set sets up her tail.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
Stroke your dog, and he'll spoil your clothes.
A blind man's stroke, which raises a dust from beneath water.
The air of a window is as the stroke of a cross-bow.
The tree does not fall at the first stroke.
A tree is not felled at one stroke.
The tree does not fall at the first stroke.
One stroke at the paddle, two and three islands have passed.
One stroke on the nail and a hundred on the horseshoe.
An oak is not felled at one stroke.
He expects to find water at the first stroke of the spade.
A mouse will put the finishing stroke to a castle wall.
The more you stroke the cat, the more he raises his tail.
No tree falls at the first stroke.
A tree isn't felled with one stroke.
Better than a thousand days of diligent study is one day with a great teacher.
One may study calligraphy at eighty.
Study without reflection is a waste of time; reflection without study is dangerous.
A single conversation across the table with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study.
Virtue comes not from chance but long study.
If you want to understand men, study women.
Repetition is the mother of study.
Those who study will know, those who save will have.
We can study until old age and still not finish.
To stop drinking, study a drunkard when you are sober.
Those who do not study are only cattle dressed up in men's clothes.
If you do not study hard when young you'll end up bewailing your failures as you grow up.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
Study from new books, but from old teachers.
A person can study for seventy years and at the end die a fool.
We are not disposed to study much after heavy meals.
Every man rejoices in his peculiar study.
The early morn favours study.
The more you study, the more you know. The more you know, the more you forget. The more you forget, the less you know. The less you know, the more you study.
Before you study Zen, a bowl is a bowl and tea is tea. While you are studying Zen, a bowl is no longer a bowl and tea is no longer tea. After you've studied Zen, a bowl is again a bowl and tea is tea.
A single conversation with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
Good study and good care banish and break bad luck.
Study from new books but from old teachers.
A mild sheep is suck by every lamb.
It never hurts to suck up to the boss.
You can't teach grandma to suck eggs.
Teach your grandame to suck eggs.
Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs.
Don't try to teach your Grandma to suck eggs.
Although you broke the bone, you did not suck out the marrow.
Ye have nothing to do but suck and wag your tail.
A cute lamb can suck off of two mothers.
Strike while the iron is hot.
You cannot strike a face that is smiling.
If you are a peg, endure the knocking; if you are a mallet, strike.
Strike a match above the sea of opinions and the fish all swim away.
Do not correct with a strike that which can be taught with a kiss.
Whether the pitcher strike the stone or the stone the pitcher, the pitcher suffers.
Breed up a serpent and he will strike when you are in deep slumber.
Strike while your employer has a big contract.
It takes a heap of licks to strike a nail in the dark.
When you are an anvil be patient; when a hammer, strike.
A happy man does not hear the clock strike.
There are more threatened than struck.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, strike hard.
May God strike the rich man blind by his own gold.
Strike while the iron is hot.
He who is struck by the lightning doesn't hear the thunder.
Don't be foolish and awe struck, because foolishness is telling but cursing doesn't hit home.
When you have touched a woman, you have struck a rock.
When you are an anvil, bear; when you are a hammer, strike.
If you strike a goad with your fist, your hand will suffer most.
Never strike your wife, even with a flower.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Don't strike a flea on a tiger's head.
It is good to strike the serpent's head with your enemy's hand.
He that pries into the clouds may be struck with a thunderbolt.
He who strikes another on the neck, does not strike far from the head.
Many men are like clocks that show one hour and strike another.
He struck at Tib, but down fell Tim.
Strike while the iron is hot.
The sky's stone does not strike the nettle.
Strike the iron while it is hot.
Mint, ere ye strike.
Quhen the iron is hot, it is time to strike.
The more a ball is struck, the more it rebounds.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Strike while the iron is hot.
If you do not strike back at him who hits you, there is no way for him to find out whether you also have hands.
You have to make the most of the chances that come your way. You have to strike while the iron is hot.
Whether the pitcher strike the stone, or the stone the pitcher, woe be to the pitcher.
When the iron is hot, then is the time to strike.
Try to strike a happy medium.
Strike me a light, and I'll light you.
My bark, once struck by the fury of the storm, dreads again to approach the place of danger.
Strike when the iron is hot.
Strike while the iron is hot. or Make hay while the sun shines.
To destroy the bones of an elephant, strike them against other elephant bones.
Strike while the iron is hot.
If you are the anvil, suffer; if you are the hammer, strike.
A shepherd does not strike his sheep.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Extinguish the spark before the [the house is on] fire, deflect the trouble before [its] strike.
A man should not be struck when he is down.
A friend who visits you when you are suffering is your best friend.
A friend who visits you when you are suffering is your best friend.
Look not at thieves eating meat, but look at them suffering punishment.
The main thing is that we can smile at our duties -- yes even at our suffering.
Pain is inevitable suffering is optional.
Only a mother can understand the suffering of a son.
If a dog offers to help you across the river, don't ask if he is suffering from the mange.
Suffering and patience, obedience and application, help the lowly born to honour.
The suffering patient knows more than the expert doctor.
Experience purchased by suffering teaches wisdom.
In Thy skies, mountains,
Springs, seas that were conquered
Buried already is the darkness
Of yesterday's suffering.
When someone's wealth improves, all of a sudden their house's columns appear to be crooked.
Sudden trust brings sudden repentance.
Sudden glory soon goes out.
Many a sudden change takes place on a spring day.
Better a steady drip than a sudden deluge.
Sudden frightening occurrence knows no brave person.
From sudden desire of halim he fell in the pot.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
A secret foe gives a sudden blow.
All sails do not suit every ship.
A bad compromise is better than a successful suit.
Suit the behavior to the occasion.
Suit yourself to the times.
That suit is best that best fits me.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
Don't trust a man wearing a better suit than your own.
If you put a silk suit on a goat it is still a goat.
When a woman prepares a dish which others find unpalatable, she says that she prepared it to suit her own taste.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
Different pursuits suit different ages.
When one dog barks, another will follow suit.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
The worst of law is that one suit breeds twenty.
It is better to carry stones with a wise man than accept the meal of a madman.
A man throws stones not words.
A blind man sat behind a pile of stones and thought that nobody could see him.
The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
Who throws stones at night, kills his own brother.
If you shoot your arrows at stones, you will damage them.
Overtakes whom gets, and stones whom doesn't.
The stones of my native country are warmer than the ovens of Babylon.
As mills require two stones, so friendship requires two heads.
Boil stones in butter, and you may sip the broth.
Everyone stones the tree that bears fruit.
If you live in a glass house, don't throw stones.
He whose house is made out of glass, shouldn't throw stones at people.
The only thing left in the wadi are its stones.
When the king reigns it is thanks to the people; when a river sings it's thanks to the stones.
No land without stones, no meat without bones.
The land where the stones know you is worth more than the land where the people know you.
Eggs should not fight stones.
The hunter who is tracking an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
When all the water has gone, only the largest stones will remain on the riverbed.
Patience wears out stones.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me.
He who lives in a glass house should not throw stones.
It is dangerous to eat cherries with the great, they throw the stones at your head.
He who lives in a glass house should be the last to throw stones.
He that pelts every barking dog must pick up a great many stones.
Who holds his peace and gathers stones, will find a time to throw them.
If you throw a handful of stones, one at least will hit.
Stones or bread, one must have something in hand for the dogs.
A Stones will remain for ever while water passes.
Eggs have no business dancing with stones.
Stones hurled to the sky. Don't get angry if you get hit.
It is only the tree loaded with fruit that the people throw stones.
Stones decay; words last.
He is not wise who places a stones on his own roof.
To persecute the unfortunate is like throwing stones on one fallen into a well.
Those who remove mountains begin by carrying away small stones.
The one who removed the mountain was the one who began carrying away stones.
Don't waste too many stones on one bird.
Small ills are the fountains of most of our groans. Men trip not on mountains, they stumble on stones.
The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
He who pelts another with paddles asks for stones in return.
If you live in a glasshouse you should not throw stones.
The only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping stones is the way you use them.
Sometimes people who live in glass houses throw stones because their windows are painted.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will break my spirit.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
He who has a glass roof on his own house, must not throw stones at others.
Throw no stones at a sleeping dog.
They who eat cherries with the great, are like to have the stones and stalks flung in their face.
They throw stones at the walnut trees, but not at the maple.
He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another.
He who has a glass roof should not throw stones at his neighbour's.
He moves all the stones, to achieve something.
He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another.
Who remove stones bruise their fingers.
We should build with the stones we have.
A red apple invites stones.
If a blind man says lets throw stones, be assured that he has stepped on one.
Men in glass houses should not throw stones.
God save you from narrow doorways, a caning, stones thrown at the blind and the weighing of shop keepers.
The crab has stuck fast between the stones at the entrance of its hole.
Pearls around the neck, stones upon the heart.
If someone throws stones at you, throw back bread.
Those that eat cherries with great persons shall have their eyes squirted out with the stones.
Great gaps may be filled with small stones.
There are many who throw stones at a red apple.
They throw stones at a tree with fruit.
He whose house is tiled with glass should not throw stones at his neighbour's.
People only throw stones at trees with fruit on them.
Don't put stones on a burden.
Where there are stones the brook babbles.
You dont throw stones at an approching craclin noise in the bush wait and see what is it first.
O eggs, never fight with stones.
The only thing left in the wadi are its stones.
A man who throws stones at himself is not to be pitied.
If someone throws stones at you, throw back bread.
Pearls around the neck, stones upon the heart.
A man without enemies is like a river without stones.
If someone throws stones at you, throw back bread.
Whoever can walk on water is probably made of straw.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
If you have a tail of straw, then keep away from the fire.
If two neighbors want to fight, they will find a quarrel in a straw.
The same fire purifies gold and consumes straw.
Keep fire away from straw.
If a man knew where he would fall, he would spread straw there first.
The one whose belly isn't full of straw isn't afraid of fire.
Never watch a bonfire wearing a straw coat.
The last straw breaks the camel's back.
Comfortable is he who doesn't have a donkey - Doesn't know of its straw and barley.
A man of straw is better than a woman of gold.
Much straw and little corn.
In a piranha infested river, monkeys drink water using a straw.
Better straw, than nothing.
He who has a straw tail is always in fear of its catching fire.
A hungry ass eats any straw.
A man of straw needs a woman of gold.
Time and straw make medlars ripe.
Would I know where I'd fall, I'd lay some straw there ahead of time.
A drawing man clutches at straw.
Rotten straw can harm a healthy horse.
God will provide, but a good bundle of straw will not be amiss.
'tis the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
To pretend to satisfy one's desires with worldly goods is like using straw to put out a fire.
A drowning man grabs at a straw.
A friend won with a feather can be lost with a straw.
He that makes a fire of straw has much smoke but little warmth.
A cat with a straw tail keeps away from fire.
It was the last straw that broke the camel's back.
That's the last straw.
With time and straw medlars ripen.
On a long journey even a straw is heavy.
He would break his neck against a straw.
He considers it as straw of, the landowner Csaky.
A drowning man catches even at a stalk of straw.
He does not put crosswise even one stalk of straw.
Who has skirts of straw needs fear the fire.
Let an ill man lie in thy straw, and he looks to be thy heir.
A man and a sheaf of straw make two.
What good is a palace if it's inhabited by owls. Better a straw hut inhabited by humans.
Every straw is a thorn at night.
Who has convenience and doesn't seize it, tie him to a stall and give him straw.
True love burns within the heart, better than flax and straw.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
A man of straw is worth a woman of gold.
You cannot make bricks without straw.
On a long journey, even a straw weighs heavy.
Some go to law, for the wagging of a straw.
It is better to make money in the straw market than to lose it in the money market.
Even a straw becomes heavy, if you carry it far enough.
You can't make bricks without straw.
A drowning man grabs even a straw.
A man of straw is worth a woman of gold.
The last straw.
He that makes a fire of straw has much smoke but little warmth.
Many stumble at a straw and leap over a block.
Before his appointed time, a person cannot die though thrown into the very jaws of death; but when that time arrives, even a straw destroys him.
Better a man of straw than a woman of gold.
It was the last straw that broke the camel's back.
You can't make bricks without straw.
A man who always wears his best kimono has no Sunday clothes.
The man of many trades begs his bread on Sunday.
Every day is not Sunday.
He don't care if good friday come pon a sunday.
He who is not drunk on a sunday is not worth a greeting on monday.
Let every day provide for itself and God send Sunday.
Like the herb plucked on sunday, it does neither good nor ill.
The wolf does that in the course of the week which hinders him from going to mass on Sunday.
If you want a fine wife, don't pick her on a Sunday.
Every day is not Sunday.
That's a spoon ye'll sup sorrow with yet.
You cannot sup soup with a fork.
One needs a long spoon to sup with the devil.
Pride breakfasted with plenty, dined with poverty, and supped with infamy.
Na man can both sup and blow together.
To rise at five, dine at nine, sup at five, go to bed at nine, makes a man live to ninety-nine.
To rise at six, eat at ten, sup at six, go to bed at ten, makes a man live years ten times ten.
Nae man can baith sup an' blaw thegither.
He suld hae a langshankit spune that wad sup kail wi the deil.
There is no winter without snow, no spring without sunshine, and no happiness without companions.
In sunshine the dust is seen.
A meal without wine is like a day without sunshine.
After rain comes sunshine.
No sunshine but hath some shadow.
Where there is sunshine, there is also shade.
The farmer hopes for rain, the walker hopes for sunshine, and the gods hesitate.
Sunshine always follows a dark night.
The person who is coming from the bowels of the earth doesn't despise even the smallest amount of sunshine.
He is the sunshine at the edge of the roof.
Sunshine without rain makes a desert.
A good laugh is sunshine in a house.
Stars are not seen by sunshine.
After clouds sunshine.
Who has a head of wax should not be in the sunshine.
After rain comes sunshine.
A day without wine is like a day without sunshine.
Sunshine all the time makes a desert.
Stupidity begins with honesty.
Jack gets on by his stupidity.
You can't find stupidity in the forest.
Against stupidity; God Himself is helpless.
Wisdom is born; stupidity is learned.
Stupidity closes the doors of kindness.
The difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits.
Stupidity won't kill you, but it can make you sweat.
Stupidity is a disease without a medicine.
Stupidity is a force unto itself.
Talent and poverty, wealth and stupidity generally dwell together.
One should not bow before stupidity merely because it is old.
If a poor man ate it, they would say it was because of his stupidity.
Stupidity is too often beauty's imperfection.
Treat your superior as a father, your equal as a brother, and your inferior as a son.
He who can take advice is sometimes superior to those who give it.
In taking revenge, a man is but even with his enemy; but in passing it over, he is superior.
Not Every nun becomes Mother Superior.
There is nothing noble in being superior to some other man. The true nobility is in being superior to your previous self.
There is nothing shameful in falling before a superior enemy.
The superior doctor prevents sickness; The mediocre doctor attends to impending sickness; The inferior doctor treats actual sickness.
What the superior man seeks in himself, the small man seeks in others.
A man's wealth may be superior to him.
Cunning is superior to strength.
Inferior men do not begin undertakings for fear of difficulties. Average men begin, but desist once difficulties appear. Men of superior nature never give up until they achieve their ends, however many the difficulties that appear.
Every man I meet is in some way my superior; and in that I can learn of him.
The bird that pecks at a rock trusts in the strength of its beak.
Ask help from the spirits after having used all your strength.
A kingdom's strength is in mutual honor.
There is not strength without unity.
Once I had the strength but no wisdom; now I have the wisdom but no strength.
Strength comes from union.
No strength within, no respect without.
Union is strength.
Man is like palm-wine: when young, sweet but without strength; in old age, strong but harsh.
In quietness and in confidence shall be your strength.
Strength is like milk - it is inexhaustible.
When one is helping another, both gain in strength.
The strength of the palm tree is in its branches.
Don't pour away your water on the strength of a mirage.
Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire.
Cunning surpasses strength.
Strength is not enduring.
True strength lies in gentleness.
Strength avails not a coward.
Hurrying and worrying are not the same as strength.
The habit of thinking is the habit of gaining strength.
It is by the strength of their number that the ants in the field are able to carry their prey to the nest.
The strength of the old is their ready counsel.
On thin ice everybody have the same strength.
If the young had the motivation and the old had the strength, there'd be nothing that couldn't be accomplished.
The strength of the crocodile is in the water.
The strength of a tree lies in its roots - not in its branches.
Attempt nothing beyond your strength.
The weakness of the enemy makes our strength.
The greatest strength is gentleness.
Strength is defeated by a strong strategy. Every road leads somewhere.
A pipe of kif in the morning gives one more strength than a 100 camels in the courtyard.
The strength of the elderly is in the ears and on the lips.
The weakness of an enemy forms part of our own strength.
If thy strength will serve, go forward in the ranks; if not, stand still.
Seek strength, not to be greater than my brother, but to fight my greatest enemy - myself.
Everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength.
Men know not all their faults, oxen all their strength.
Distance tests a horse's strength; time reveals a marls character.
The strength of a man can't be determined by is size.
What we do with pity another would call it strength.
The one who hasn't strength to pound yams pretends to drive away flies from the yams.
Cleverness is better than strength.
The rich man spends his money, the poor man his strength.
Youths are like waves of the sea, the elderly have strength instead of tide.
The strength of the heart comes from the soundness of the faith.
You know a man by the sweat of his brow and the strength of his word.
In wine there is wisdom. In beer there is strength. In water there is bacteria.
With unity there is strength.
If young men had wit and old men strength everything might be well done.
Wisdom is better than strength.
In union is strength.
Wood in wildernesse, & strength in a fool.
Strength does not correspond with courage.
Strength has nothing.
Hope may give a man strength, but not sense.
If youth but had the knowledge and old age the strength.
Policy goes beyond strength.
One has always strength enough to bear the misfortunes of one's friends.
Cunning is superior to strength.
He who has great strength should use it lightly.
Prudence and strength combined.
Prudence availeth more than strength.
When you chase a fellow man reserve the strength to switch you back when he recharges and turns.
Haste is not strength.
Perseverance performs greater works than strength.
In old age your strength decreases and your appetite increases.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
After dinner, rest; after supper walk a mile.
Go to bed without supper, you will rise without debt.
It's an ill supper which come from other's hand.
To sing before breakfast is to weep before supper.
He that feeds upon charity has a cold dinner and no supper.
Laugh before breakfast, you'll cry before supper.
After dinner sit awhile; after supper walk a mile.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a poor supper.
Light supper makes long life.
Befo' darg go widout supper, him nyam cockroach.
After dinner rest a while, after supper walk a mile.
Honor buys no meat in the market. Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper.
If you eat it up at supper, you cannot have it for breakfast.
Better lose a supper than have a hundred physicians.
A light supper is beneficial.
After supper walk a mile.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a poor supper.
A little fish is supper for a large fish.
A mother-in-law who farts during the supper foretells a good harvest.
Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper.
I gave him a staff for his support and he uses it to break my head.
Don't lean on your fellow men - theirs is an ever moving support.
Every man should support himself, and not hang upon another.
A single beam cannot support a great house.
No matter how big, one beam cannot support a house.
A sleeping head needs more than its neck to support it.
A henpecked husband gets no support during a lawsuit.
If the dowry doesn't support her, even the executioner is disinterested.
The bowels support the heart, and not the heart the bowels.
Good housewife support three corners of the house.
Stolen sugar is the sweetest.
What good is giving sugar to the dead?
Where there is sugar, there are mice.
Even sugar itself may spoil a good dish.
Truth is like sugar cane; even if you chew it for a long time, it is still sweet.
Too much sugar is bitter.
Work like an ant and you'll eat sugar.
Where there is sugar, there are bound to be ants.
Ants die in sugar.
A mother-in-law made of sugar, still tastes bitter.
Wherever you find sugar, you'll find ants.
Only when you have eaten a lemon do you appreciate what sugar is.
One sprinkles the most sugar where the tart is burned.
Even a sugar mother-in-law tastes bitter.
Rebuke should have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
The sweetness of a kola nut doesn't lie in its sugar content.
Put cream and sugar on a fly and it tastes very much like a black raspberry.
Good qualities never cancel out the bad, just as sugar is no antidote for poison.
Be not all sugar, or the world will swallow you up; be not all wormwood, or the world will spit you out.
The black man steals just half of very little, but the white man steals the whole sugar plantation.
If your heart is bitter, sugar in the mouth won't help.
If there is bitterness in the heart, sugar in the mouth won't make life sweeter.
Don't talk sweet, spit the sugar out of your mouth!
Ants die in sugar.
The honey fell into the sugar.
Rebukes ought not to have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
The surface of the water is beautiful, but it is no good to sleep on.
A child's lie is like a dead fish in a pond that in the end, always comes to the surface, explains his mother.
When you try to stay on the surface of the water, you sink; but when you try to sink, you float.
We work on the surface, the depths are a mystery.
There is no hiding place on the water surface.
Wine makes secrets float to the surface.
The choice oil is from the surface, the best wine is from the middle, and the best honey is from the bottom.
Many cakes are beautiful on the surface, but have crappy fillings.
The truth rises to the surface like oil on water.
Truth and oil, always come to the surface.
Believe not that the stream is shallow because its surface is smooth.
If summer had a mother, she would weep at summer's passing.
The winter will ask what we did all summer.
The favor of a man in power is like a summer shower.
He flies into the flame, the summer insect.
A padded jacket is an acceptable gift even in summer.
One swallow does not make a summer.
Those who don't pick roses in summer won't pick them in winter either.
The rich man gets his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter.
Summer is the mother of the poor.
Winter will ask you what you did during the summer.
A life without love is like a year without summer.
The bad fortune of zoza: in winter it sees not the sun and in summer it sees not the moon.
The summer comes and kisses the child, the winter comes and kills it.
Winter finds out what summer lays up.
If the winter doesn't winter, and the summer doesn't summer, the farmstead will be in trouble.
If you want to experience the pains of hell, spend winter in Messina and summer in Palermo.
Rather a man without a cow for the summer than without a wife for christmas night.
The rich man has his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter.
No matter how much snow falls, it won't remain there all the way till summer.
You cannot build a house for last year's summer.
The summer moments always pass quickly.
Summer is the season of inferior sledding.
No summer, but has its winter.
Summer sown corn and women's advice turn out once in every seven years.
One swallow does not make a summer.
He who does not collect in summer, will heat little in winter.
One swallow creates no summer.
The summer that yields lots of pumpkins and horse radish doesn't fill the larder.
One swallow doesn't make summer.
When the summer is winter, and the winter is summer, it is a sorry year.
He that would be healthy must wear his winter clothes in summer.
Summer will not last for ever.
One swallow doesn't make summer.
An hour in summer is more than a day in winter.
A swallow does not make a summer.
Summer vacation on the ice of a lake.
Just wait, frost, the summer will come!
Miss summer and flies, the poor man would have friends.
A swallow doesn't make the summer.
One swallow never made a summer.
There are four things to which you should not lend credence: love of women, the charity of friars, sun in the winter, and clouds in the summer.
Summer rain makes beautiful.
One swallow does not make a summer.
A surgeon experiments on the heads of orphans.
The tender surgeon makes the wound gangrene.
The best surgeon is he that has been well hacked himself.
A good surgeon must have a hawk's eye, a lion's heart and a woman's hand.
A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
Call not a surgeon before you are wounded.
A surgeon should be young a physician old.
Call not a surgeon before you are wounded.
There is no better surgeon than one with many scars.
Gossipers always suspect that others are talking about them.
Consider the facts seven times before you suspect someone.
If you suspect someone, don't employ them; if you employ someone, don't suspect them.
The old know and the young suspect.
Call your husband cuckold in jest, an he'll never suspect you.
Don't suspect your employee. If one is suspicious, don't employ him.
If you suspect a man, don't employ him, and if you employ him, don't suspect him.
The less we know, the more we suspect.
Who has once deceived will ever be a suspect.
It is more disgraceful to suspect our friends than to be deceived by them.
Suspicion bears dark devils.
Avoid suspicion: when you're walking through your neighbor's melon patch, don't tie your shoe.
Suspicion may be no fault, but showing it may be a great one.
Suspicion is the sister of the wrong.
Look with suspicion on the flight of an enemy.
Too much force breeds suspicion.
Credit is suspicion asleep.
A lock is better than suspicion.
Caesar's wife must be above suspicion.
He that is in fault is in suspicion.
Even after the accusation or rumour has been refuted, a suspicion nonetheless lingers.
Presents from an enemy must be received with suspicion.
A slight suspicion may destroy a good repute.
Suspicion is the poison of friendship.
However swift a man, he will not outstrip his shadow.
Swift gratitude is the sweetest.
Mischief has swift wings.
A lame cat is better than a swift horse when rats infest the palace.
A swift eater, a swift worker.
Though a lie be swift, truth overtakes it.
The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong.
It's better to be prepared than swift afterwards.
The roe is swift enough without setting the dogs on her.
The race is not always to the swift.
Be swift to hear, slow to speak.
I ate honey in my childhood, and its sweetness is still in my tooth.
It is not by saying, 'honey, honey,' that sweetness comes into the mouth.
In this world a pint of sweetness and a barrel of bitterness.
The sweetness of food doesn't last long, but the sweetness of good words do.
Not all goodness brings sweetness.
The sweetness of a kola nut doesn't lie in its sugar content.
"t is not with saying, "Honey," "Honey," that sweetness will come into the mouth.
If sweetness be excessive, it is no longer sweetness.
Better the coldness of a friend than the sweetness of an enemy.
Sweetness attracts more flies than sourness.
The vicious, notwithstanding the sweetness of their words, and the honey on their tongues, have a whole storehouse of poison in their hearts.
It is not in speaking continually of honey that sweetness comes into the mouth.
On Saint Thomas the Divine kill all turkeys, geese and swine.
Don't cast your pearls before swine.
He that makes himself dirt is trod on by the swine.
Cast not pearls to swine.
Draff's good enough for swine'.
Strew no roses before swine.
He who mixes himself with the draff will be eaten by the swine.
Dogs will red swine.
Don't cast your pearls before swine.
The ground is always frozen for the lazy swine.
He who lies down in the wash will be eaten by swine.
To cast pearls before swine.
Don't throw pearls to the swine.
The shots overgoes the old swine.
Cast no roses before swine.
Do not throw pearls to swine.
You're casting pearls before swine.
The owner's eyes fatten the swine.
Old swine have hard snouts, old oxen hard horns.
Do not throw pearls before swine.
The stupid fear fortune, the wise endure it.
To give jewels to a donkey is as stupid as giving a eunuch to a woman.
As stupid as a pig's behind.
A stupid act entails doing the work twice over.
If you know a lot, know enough to make them respect you, if you are stupid, be stupid enough so they can pity you.
An intelligent enemy is worth more than a stupid friend.
An intelligent foe is better than a stupid friend.
A wise mans ink lasts until only the stupid remain.
The most stupid chicken always challenges the wildcat.
An intelligent enemy is better than a stupid friend.
The only stupid question is the one that is not asked.
Too clever is stupid.
You are learning all your life and you die stupid.
Smart who smiles, stupid who laughs.
Who is born stupid will die stupid.
Smart is the one who goes along with time, stupid is the one who bears his fangs.
Who is stupid in the morning will be stupid in the evening.
Even a stupid one seems wise if he keeps his mouth shut.
One stupid woman recognizes another one from a distance.
Silence is the best answer to the stupid.
Giving advice to a stupid man is like giving salt to a squirrel.
Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large numbers.
To fight once shows bravery, but to fight all the time is stupid.
Better an intelligent enemy than a stupid friend.
The more stupid the child the dearer it is.
The mouth is stupid after eating it forgets who gave it the food.
It is a stupid dog that barks at an elephant.
It is only a stupid cow that rejoices at the prospect of being taken to a beautiful abattoir.
Don't be stupid to replace wisdom with knowledge because you will lose understanding.
Silence is the best answer to the stupid.
The joke is the weapon of the witty; being serious is the shield of the stupid.
Stupid solutions that succeed are still stupid solutions.
It is a stupid goose that listens to the fox preach.
Seek the brave in prison and the stupid among the clergy.
A stupid friend is a greater plague than a wise enemy.
Take no notice of the stupid things people say.
Stupid is as stupid does.
Keep it simple, stupid. (KISS)
Silence is the best answer to the stupid.
A stupid has his heart in the mouth, his mouth in the heart.
He who cannot doubt, is a stupid man.
Whoever hates a reprimand is stupid.
A girl who cannot patch man's trousers in between the legs, must not marry at all, because what use does a man have of such a stupid wife.
Life-time, live, life-time, all the same you will die as stupid.
When the head is stupid suffers the whole body.
Even a stupid one seems wise when he isn't talking.
The earth is not thirsty for the blood of the warriors but for the sweat of man's labor.
Hunger, work, and sweat are the best herbs.
It takes sweat to work on things, but it only takes saliva to criticize things.
Blood is the sweat of heroes.
Priestly knaves sweat hard at their meat, but never at work get into a heat.
The sweat of one's brow is what burns everyone.
Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it does make you sweat a lot.
Who works in sweat will eat with appetite.
The lazy sweat when they eat and complain of the cold when they work.
The best blessing for a good harvest is a pumpkin full of sweat.
Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it will make you sweat a lot.
A drop of sweat spent in a drill is a drop of blood saved in a battle.
If two brothers fight over their father's land, it is a stranger who will enjoy there sweat and labour.
No sweat, no sweet.
Stupidity won't kill you, but it can make you sweat.
You know a man by the sweat of his brow and the strength of his word.
Sweat makes good mortar.
Eat till you sweat and work till you freeze.
Success is 10% ability, and 90% sweat.
Ignorance doesn't necessarily kill you but it makes you sweat a lot.
No sweet without sweat.
Who enters the Turkish bath will sweat.
The rich is washed with money, the poor with sweat.
No sweet without some sweat.
If everyone swept the pavement in front of his house, the whole street would be clean.
Sweep around your own doorstep first.
Sweep the dirt from in front of your own door, and don't worry about your neighbour's.
Sweep before your own door before you sweep before others.
When you sweep the stairs, you start at the top.
If each person would sweep before his own house, the city would soon be clean.
If everyone swept in front of his house, the whole town would be clean.
If every man would sweep before his own door, the city would soon be clean.
If you want to sweep the steps clean, start at the top.
If every man would sweep his own door-step the city would soon be clean.
New broom sweep clean, but de ole broom know de corner.
Sweep in front of your own door before you look after your neighbor's.
Do not sweep someone else's home while yours is dirty.
Sweep in front of your own door.
Let every one sweep before his own door.
May you have a bright future – as the chimney sweep said to his son.
New brooms sweep clean.
Each should sweep before his own house.
Sweep first before your own door, before you sweep the doorsteps of your neighbors.
When you sweep the house, you find everything.
When a miller fights with a chimney sweep, the miller gets black and the chimney sweep gets white.
With a French sweep.
New brooms sweep clean.
Every one should sweep before his own door.
Fine dressing is a foul house, swept before the windows.
The woman in finery, the house in filth, but the doorway swept.
The day I did not sweep the house, there came to it one I did not expect.
I mistress and you miss, who is to sweep the house?
New brooms sweep the best.
The robin and the wren are God's cock and hen; the martin and the swallow are God's mate and marrow.
The devil can swallow a woman but he can't digest her.
Envious persons never compliment, they only swallow.
A patient that can swallow food makes the nurse doubtful.
The human heart is never satisfied, just like the snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
One swallow does not make a summer.
If you have to swallow a frog, try not to think about it. If you have to swallow two frogs, don't swallow the smaller one first.
Eat the wind and swallow bitterness.
I can chew for you, my child, but you must swallow by yourself.
Who bites with a lie will swallow with pain.
You cannot swallow hot milk, nor can you throw it away.
The hard road turns the traveller into the same dust that he has to swallow.
A man's greed is like a snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
A person whose heart is not content is like a snake which tries to swallow an elephant.
Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it.
Man's heart is never satisfied; the snake would swallow the elephant.
Swallow a date with its stone.
A man should not, out of pride and etiquette, swallow his phlegm.
Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it.
It is as bad to spit out the fire and be shamed, as it is to swallow it and be burnt.
Flattery is sweet food for those who can swallow it.
It's not healthy to swallow books without chewing.
Be not all sugar, or the world will swallow you up; be not all wormwood, or the world will spit you out.
He that has swallowed the devil may swallow his horns.
One swallow does not make a summer.
To strain at a gnat and swallow a camel.
The snail is as sune at its rest as the swallow.
Ae swallow makes nae simmer.
One swallow creates no summer.
It is the fear of offence that makes men swallow poison.
One swallow doesn't make summer.
Aesop, "The Swallow and the Other Birds" (c. 6th century BC)
One swallow doesn't make summer.
A swallow does not make a summer.
A swallow doesn't make the summer.
Measure your throat before you swallow a bone.
One swallow does not make a spring.
One swallow never made a summer.
One swallow does not a summer make.
One swallow doesn't shit the head.
One swallow does not make a summer.
one swallow does not herald the coming of spring.
You cannot swallow medicine pills without letting the throat know.
Failure is the mother of success.
Self-assurance is two-thirds of success.
A mother's lesson – a son's success.
In the hour of your greatest success are sown the seeds of your own destruction.
Success has more than one father.
Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.
Success to you! God speed the craft! as the hangman said to the judge.
Neighbours bring comfort in adversity but only envy in success.
You cannot climb a bid of success with your hands tied up.
Success ruins a fool.
Success is a ladder that cannot be climbed with your hands in your pockets.
The start of a journey should never be mistaken for success.
The secret of success is constancy of purpose.
Nothing succeeds like success.
The secret to success is to walk forward.
A bold attempt is half success.
There's neither success nor efficiency without authority and laws.
Assurance is two-thirds success.
On the ladder to success there is always somebody on the rung above you and who uses your head to steady himself.
Success consecrates the foulest crimes.
Success has many fathers, while failure is an orphan.
There is no substitute for success.
If I am in harmony with my family, that's success.
One failure leads to another; so does success.
A year's harvest counts on spring; a man's success counts on his diligence.
Success in the end erases all the mistakes along the way.
The two hardest things in life to handle are success and failure.
Success in life largely depends on how you handle your failures.
The success of a man is through the soles of his feet, that of a woman is from her legs.
The road to success is always under construction.
The secret of success is to start from scratch.
He who wakes up and finds himself a success hasn't been asleep.
Your failures could be stepping-stones to success.
You can't be a howling success by simply howling.
Confidence of success is almost success.
Earnest effort leads some to success.
Getting what you go after is called success, but liking it while you are getting it is called happiness.
Diligence is the mistress of success.
The dictionary is the only place where success comes before work.
Man learns little from success, but much from failure.
Work is our business; it's success is God's.
Success has many fathers.
Success has many friends.
Success is doing what you like and making a living at it.
Failures are but mileposts on the road to success.
No good thing is failure and no evil thing success.
Courage is the father of success.
Success is 10% ability, and 90% sweat.
The door of success is marked ‘push and pull.'
From success to failure is one step; from failure to success is a long road.
Perseverance brings success.
Success and rest don't sleep together.
Assurance is two-thirds success.
Success alters our manners.
Success makes a fool seem wise.
It is a bad action that success cannot justify.
Success leads to insolence.
They fought with varying success.
Success or ruin.
Confidence is the companion of success.
One secret of success is to know how to deny yourself and other people.
Self trust is the first secret of success.
There is only eight years between success and failure in politics.
patience is mother of success.
Real success is success of the soul.
The classic formula for success is Dress British, Think Yiddish.
Assurance is two-thirds success.
Meaning: Work hard and you shall gain success.
Success is a ladder which cannot be climbed with hands in your pocket.
Success is a journey not a destination.
Failure teaches success.
Success has brought many to destruction.
From success to failure is one step; from failure to success is a long road.
The test of merit is success.
When the sun rises, it rises for everyone.
Turn your face to the sun and the shadows fall behind you.
There is nothing new under the sun- and that's why there remains such a mess.
Where the sun shines, there is also shade.
For age and want save while you may, no morning sun lasts a whole day.
No dew ever competed with the sun.
Gypsy gold does not chink and glitter, it gleams in the sun and neighs in the dark.
You cannot cover up the sun with a sieve.
When you talk about the sun, you will see her beams.
Ashamed of what she sees in the daytime the sun sets with a blush.
Only mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noonday sun.
The hot sun melts away the snow; when anger comes, does wisdom go.
The sun passes over filth and is not dirtied.
The moon grows darker as it gets nearer to the sun.
Don't sell the sun to buy a candle.
The bull that is used to the sun shivers by the light of the moon.
The umbrella was made for rainy days, the white man uses it for the sun.
While the sun is still up, let people work that the earth may live.
Don't stay on the dew until the sun reaches its highest.
A ruler without a nation is like a flower without the sun.
May the sun set on where my love dwells.
The sun cannot be covered by a net.
Gold like the sun melts wax and hardens clay.
You cannot hide the sun with one hand.
How lovely is the sun after rain, and how lovely is laughter after sorrow.
Dance in the sun, but turn your back to the clouds.
Keep your eyes on the sun and you will not see the shadows.
Love without friendship is like a shadow without the sun.
The sun cannot be hidden by two fingers.
The sun will shine on those who are standing, before it shines on those who are sitting.
He who is not happy with the position of the sun should climb and change it.
Despite the beauty of the moon, sun and stars, the sky also has a threatening thunder and striking lightening.
The sun shines on those who are standing before it shines on the people kneeling under them.
He who is not beaten by the sun or the rain, will eventually be beaten by the hunger.
The sun at home warms better than the sun elsewhere.
For every evil under the sun there is a remedy or there is none.
The sun dial counts only the bright hours.
There's nothing new under the sun.
Let your anger set with the sun and not rise again.
May your anger set with the sun and not rise again with it.
The only good thing that comes from the east is the sun.
If you would be in good repute, let not the sun find you in bed.
The Sun rises for everybody.
He who has come through the fire will fade in the sun.
The rooster said, "I shall cry but whether the sun rises God knows."
He would sell even his share of the sun.
The sun loses nothing by shining into a puddle.
If the sun shines on me I care not for the moon.
The sun is still beautiful, though ready to set.
When the sun is highest it casts the least shadow.
Happy is the bride that the sun shines on.
When the sun shines on thee, thou needest not care for the moon.
With so many roosters crowing, the sun never comes up.
He who loves a woman is a nephew of the sun.
The stone in the water does not know how hot the hill is, parched by the sun.
The lion basks in the rays of the giraffes sun.
When it's raining and the sun shines -- then a Turk is born.
The goat that has many owners will be left to die in the sun.
It's no shame to look into the warm spring sun and regret a lost limb.
Rockstone a riva battam noh know' sun hot.
Ston a riva battan nuh know sun hat.
When it rains and the sun comes out, foxes make love.
The sun shines for everyone.
The bad fortune of zoza: in winter it sees not the sun and in summer it sees not the moon.
There isn't a saturday without sun, nor a woman without love.
The sun that melts the wox is the same that hardens the mud.
If you cry because the sun has gone out of your life, your tears will prevent you from seeing the stars.
When in March sun and water are taking turns with water and sun, the mules end up doing the carrying.
After the storm the sun comes out.
Being in love is like feeling the sun from both sides.
Even a poor man owns the sun and the stars.
To be in love is to feel the sun from both sides.
Can I pull down the sun with a forked stick, or prevent it from running its course?
‘Tis day still, while the sun shines.
He keeps his word, as the sun keeps butter.
Stormy weather cannot stay all the time, the red sun will come out, too.
If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; if he kills, the earth hides it.
The morning sun never lasts a day.
The little stars will always shine while the great sun is often eclipsed.
A man's work is from sun to sun, but a mother's work is never done.
If you're going to rest under the sun, it's better to keep walking.
When you talk about the sun, you will see her beams.
The growing millet does not fear the sun.
The sun shines during the day, not at night.
The wisdom of the elderly is like the sun, it illuminates the village and the great river.
A friend works in the light of the sun, an enemy in the dark.
My treasures do not chink or glitter. They gleam in the sun and neigh in the night.
Don't let the windows of your home be so small that the light of the sun cannot enter your rooms.
If you don't have a hundred rubles, make sure you have a hundred friends.
Talk of the devil and he's sure to appear.
Make sure to be in with your equals if you're going to fall out with your superiors.
When you argue with a fool, make sure he is not doing the same.
If you are doing wrong, make sure you don't get fat from it.
No matter how long the night, the day is sure to come.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
Make sure your blanket covers your feet.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the angel of death.
Excessive talk is sure to include errors.
When you're at the dealing table, always look for the sucker– and make sure it isn't you.
A lonely old crow, see someone you know, Fly to your right, sure to be right, And if you are hawking, money before night.
As long as the mouse keeps still you can be sure that the cat stays on guard.
When a bull gets his leg broken, he is sure to go back to his yard.
If you turn into a dog, be sure to choose a rich family.
Sleep with a woman and she will make sure you wake up.
Clouds do not always mean rain, but smoke is a sure sign of fire.
If your husband has many wives, the only sure way for him into you're the bedroom is through a delicious meal.
When you see gossamer flying, be sure the air is drying.
The only sure thing about luck is that it's sure to change.
Truth has always a sure bottom.
Be sure to have a controversial opinion, and men will talk about you.
Keep within compass and you may be sure, That you will not suffer what others endure.
To spend much and gain little is the sure road to ruin.
No matter who comes off well, the peacemaker is sure to come off ill.
Better be sure than sorry.
To the fighting man peace is sure.
Never call a Kerry man a fool until you're sure he's not a rogue.
What is true is no more sure than the probable.
It befits the king to be liberal, for he is sure of never falling into poverty.
Be sure not to owe anything to the rich, and don't lend anything to the poor.
Slow and sure.
Our good life sure is there for us, unless we learned some bad conduct in our home as children.
If you marry a young woman, make sure your friends stay outside.
No one so sure but he may miss.
They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove they are right.
Ice in spring is treacherous; new friendships are seldom sure.
Where the river makes a sound, you can be sure it's carrying water.
Never cheat a klingon... Unless your sure you can get away with it.
IF you are buying a cow, make sure that the price of the tail is included.
He who provokes a war must be sure that he knows how to fight.
Slow but sure wins the race.
Make sure better than cock-sure.
Be sure that the candle is lit before you throw away the match.
Who is not satisfied with himself will grow; who is not sure of his own correctness will learn many things.
Make sure you leave some fat for the other side.
The best preparation for tomorrow is to make sure today's work is superbly done.
If you want to lean on a tree, first make sure it can hold you.
No matter how long the night is, the morning is sure to come.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
Be careful of the words you say each day, make sure each is nice and sweet, because may be in the days ahead, there will be some you'll have to eat.
No matter how long the night, the day is sure to come.
Train a child the way he should go and make sure you you also go the same way.
Love of dress is sure the very curse.
A sure sign of age is loneliness.
A chameleon does not leave one tree until he is sure of another.
If you want to hit your mother-in-law, be sure to split her head.
The day is sure to come when the cow will want her tail.
Those who wade in unknown waters will be sure to be drowned.
If you come up in this world, be sure not to go down in the next.
Those who fight with silver spears are sure of their victory.
Good is the delay which makes sure.
Justice is better than admiration If you are going to kill, then kill an elephant; if you are going to steal make sure it's a treasure.
Be sure before you marry of a house wherein to tarry.
He that fights with silver arms is sure to overcome.
When the teeth fall off, the nose is sure to collapse.
Any wealth that takes only a market week to acquire is sure to contain in it things for which the gods will surely come to make claims.
When loves knocks, be sure to answer.
The vulture perches on the trees because it does not feel sure on the ground.
You have cast away your own for that which you are not sure of.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the Angel of Death.
If you start thinking of death, you are no longer sure of life.
If you're out to beat a dog, you're sure to find a stick.
Understanding is something we're sure the other fellow hasn't got.
Wasting is a bad habit, saving is a sure income.
Remember that everyone you ever meet is sure to fear something, to love something, and to have lost something.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.
Slow but sure.
See to it that you have many books and many friends -- but be sure they are good ones.
Make sure you have many books and many friends -- as long as they are good ones.
Wherever a man dwells, he shall be sure to have a thorn-bush near his door.
No man can be happy without a friend, or be sure of his friend till he is unhappy.
Meaning: Wait too long and the opportunity is sure to vanish.
Who wears trousers will get a woman for sure.
Labor has sure reward.
You are sure to marry a woman either beautiful or ugly; If ugly she will be a punishment; if beautiful, you will share her with others. Therefore do not marry.
You are sure to marry a woman either beautiful or ugly.
The arrogant army will lose the battle for sure.
You teach the dolphin to swim!
Those who know how to swim are the ones who sink.
'tis hard to swim against the stream.
No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim.
Strike a match above the sea of opinions and the fish all swim away.
The shark who has eaten cannot swim with the shark that is hungry.
Only in water can you learn to swim.
As soon as stones can swim, leaves will sink.
People who drink to drown their sorrows, should be told that sorrow knows how to swim.
A fish should swim thrice: in water, in sauce, and in wine.
Fish's child knows how to swim.
In a dangerous river, the alligators swim backstroke.
When wine sinks, words swim.
He is like the anchor that is always in the sea, yet does not learn to swim.
Teach a crocodile to swim.
How we apples swim! said the horse-turd.
The dog learns to swim when the water reaches his ears.
Either you sink or you swim.
Never offer to teach a fish to swim.
The sea aint got no backdoor; I can swim like lead.
If you destroy a bridge, be sure you can swim.
You cannot think you could teach a fish to swim.
Never venture out of your depth till you can swim.
Don't drown the man who taught you to swim.
The heron blames the water because he cannot swim.
It is good to swim near a boat.
Fish, to taste right, must swim 3 times -- in water, in butter and in wine.
Fish, to taste good, must swim three times: in water, in butter, and in wine.
Tasty fish have to swim three times: once in the water, then in butter, and finally in wine.
Fish must swim thrice.
In the shallowest waters, the ugliest fish swim.
Who does not jump into water will not learn to swim.
A river drowns the one who can swim.
It is hard to swim against the stream.
It is hard to swim against the current.
He may swim boldly who is held up by the chin.
Don't teach fishes to swim.
Do not teach a pike to swim, a pike knows his own science.
To swim and swim more, and be drowned on shore.
One cannot learn to swim in a field.
You are teaching iron to swim.
Teach an eagle to fly, a dolphin to swim.
No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim.
It's much easier to swim in the direction of the current.
Shall the gosling teach the goose to swim?
Only in water can you learn to swim.
You must not teach fish to swim.
In the calmest waters swim the ugliest fish.
If you don't know how to swim, why are you at the seashore?
Never venture out of your depth till you can swim.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out.
If not for fear, sin would be sweet.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
Flies know well the sweet seller's beard.
The patient thief is as a tree whose root runs deep as he waits for the sweet fruit..
When the monkey can't reach the ripe banana with his hand, he says it is not sweet.
Patience is a tree whose root is bitter, but its fruit is very sweet.
A silent mouth is sweet to hear.
Brackish water is sweet in a drought.
Beware of the vinegar of sweet wine.
Knowledge has bitter roots but sweet fruits.
Eating much of sweetness you do not know if it be sweet anymore.
Sweet tongues buy horses on credit.
Sugarcane is always sweet people only sometimes so.
Money is sweet balm.
Man is like palm-wine: when young, sweet but without strength; in old age, strong but harsh.
Truth is like sugar cane; even if you chew it for a long time, it is still sweet.
Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bone.
Sweet rice is eaten quickly.
The pot-lid is always badly off: the pot gets all the sweet, the lid nothing but steam.
A hasty person misses the sweet things.
Mouth will not be sweet if you say halva.
You talk sweet like the bulbul bird.
An old man's mouth produces a bad smell but the words that come out of it are sweet.
Between two friends even water drunk together is sweet enough.
Take the bitter with the sweet.
A black plum is as sweet as a white.
Similar to a bee: in their mouths they carry sweet honey, and in their tails poison.
What is sweet in the mouth is not always good in the stomach.
The watch-dog does not get sweet milk unless there be drowned mice in it.
Labour has a bitter root, but a sweet taste.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
He who has not tasted bitter, knows not what sweet is.
Who has never tasted what is bitter does not know what is sweet.
Who has tasted a sour apple, will have the more relish for a sweet one.
Whoever has bitten a sour apple will enjoy the sweet one all the more.
The wine is sweet, the paying bitter.
Sweet is the voice of the man who has wealth.
It's sweet to drink but bitter to pay for it.
What was hard to bear is sweet to remember.
He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet.
A bitter centipede if eaten in a pleasing berry pie will taste sweet.
What was hard to bear is sweet to remember.
Strong is the vinegar of sweet wine.
Love is sweet captivity.
Medicine that heals is not always sweet and caring words are not always pleasant.
No one says, "my pasture is not sweet.”.
Ignorance is sweet for the soul.
Wha sweet nanny-goat a go run him belly.
He who suffers the bitter will taste the sweet.
Sweet is the smell from your own ass.
After the sour comes the sweet.
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings.
What was hard to endure is sweet to recall.
When a durian tree is already ripe and sweet, many of the durians will fall to the ground.
Even vinegar is sweet when for freebie.
Coffee should be black as Hell, strong as death, and sweet as love.
The truth is bitter and lies are sweet.
Not every sweet root gives birth to sweet grass.
Words are sweet, but they never take the place of food.
No sweet without sweat.
In sweet converse call the righteous to thy side, learn a healing song while thou livest.
Life is sweet.
Between true friends even water drunk together is sweet enough.
You are a sweet skin buckey.
Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.
Sweet and sour walk hand in hand.
He who eats bitter things gets sweet things too.
Eating is sweet, digging is weariness.
The beginning of sin is sweet; its end is bitter.
Better to drink the weak tea of a friend than the sweet wine of an enemy.
For people who love even water is sweet.
When men are friendly the water is sweet.
With true friends . . . even water drunk together is sweet enough.
The flowers in your garden don't smell as sweet as those in the wild, but they last much longer.
A sweet lovely voice cannot make a dumb person talk.
Be aware of a man with a sweet tongue he can lead you to buying bad meat.
It's not the aroma of the soup that tells you whether it's sweet or not, but it's the tongue's taste.
The words of the wise become sweet the day after.
The sweet flying ants will never be birds.
Food gained by fraud tastes sweet to a man, but he ends up with gravel in his mouth.
No sweat, no sweet.
Be careful of the words you say each day, make sure each is nice and sweet, because may be in the days ahead, there will be some you'll have to eat.
Sweet and sour walk hand in hand.
Half an orange tastes as sweet as a whole one.
Not everything forbidden is sweet.
Sweet are the uses of adversity.
If patience is sour then its result is sweet.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The only sword that never rests is the tongue of a woman.
A sword in the hands of a drunken slave is less dangerous than science in the hands of the immoral.
My enemy's liver is the sheath of my sword.
Do not draw your sword to kill a fly.
Never give a child a sword.
One sword keeps another in its scabbard.
It is worse to be wounded by words than a sword.
Wear no sword at kinsman's board.
Don't take a golden sword to cut a radish.
I have no sword; I make no mind my sword.
The tongue of woman is her sword, which never rusts.
Money is sharper than a sword.
Poor iron won't make a sharp sword.
Let the sword decide after the stratagem has failed.
The one without a sword gets humiliated.
Literal meaning: The sultan's sword is long.
During the battle you cannot lend your sword to anyone.
The sword and the ring according to the hand that bears them.
A finger's length in a sword, and a palm in a lance, are a great advantage.
God grant me a good sword and no use for it.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
May the lord grant me a sword and no need to use it.
Come a little closer when your sword is too short.
A threat does not lengthen your sword.
He who injures with the sword will be finished by the sword.
Speak the truth, but keep one hand on the sword.
He who plays with a sword plays with the devil.
A short sword for a brave man.
An inch in a sword, or a palm in a lance, is a great advantage.
Ill air slays sooner than the sword.
Love rules without a sword and binds without a cord.
A good sword is the one left in its scabbard.
The wound caused by a sword can eventually be healed; the hurt resulted from vicious remarks can never be undone.
Marking the Boat to Seek One's Sword.
The tongue of a woman is the sword that is never allowed to rust.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than that which is given by the sword.
Never stir the fire with a sword.
He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
A blow with a word strikes deeper than a blow with a sword.
Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone.
Time is like a sword. If you did not cut it, it will cut you.
Let the sword decide only after the plan has failed.
More people are slain by supper than by the sword.
The sword keeps the peace of the land.
One sword keep another in the sheath.
He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.
It fares ill with the house when the distaff commands the sword.
Great anger is more destructive than the sword.
He who lives by the sword dies by the sword.
If your sword is short, add one step to it.
All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.
Surfeit slayes mae nor the sword.
If you fail to take away a strong man's sword when he is on the ground, will you do it when he gets up?
Good sword has often been in poor scabbard.
Fingal's sword never had to cut twice.
A woman's tongue is her sword, and she does not let it rust.
Gluttony has killed more than the sword.
Who draws his sword against his prince must throw away his scabbard.
Whosoever draws his sword against the prince must throw the scabbard away.
You cannot forge a good sword from bad iron.
There isn't a sword that would cut off a golden hand.
Wit without discretion is a sword in the hand of a fool.
For whom sword and courage are not enough, corslet and lance will not be enough.
The sword and the ring according to the hand that bears them.
Trust not a sword in the hands of a boy.
He fights with spirit as well as with the sword.
Let not your sword be drawn at any man's bidding.
Being but a woman, raise not the sword.
A sword anointed with honey.
Many fall by the sword, but more from gluttony.
Even the sword doesn't cut the head of the one who confesses.
Great anger is more destructive than the sword.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
The edge of the sword comes from sharpening, and the fragrance of plum blossom comes from the bitter cold.
Money is sharper than a sword.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than sword.
Never stir the fire with a sword.
When the sword of rebellion is drawn, the sheath should be thrown away.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
Even when a sharp sword rests on your neck, don't give up on mercy.
The book and the sword descended from heaven together.
A bent head is not touched by the sword.
Great anger is more destructive than the sword.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
It fares ill with the house where the spinning-wheel commands the sword.
A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam which his mother puts into his palm.
A child's hand is not burned by hot yam which is placed into his palm by his mother.
When the mother goat breaks into the yam store her kid watches her.
When a yam doesn't grow well, we don't blame it; it is because of the soil.
When you plant a yam it produces another yam.
A strong man is remembered on the day of the fight, and a gluttony on the day pounded yam is surplus.
When a soup is unpalatable, and the paste of the pounded yam that goes with it is not smooth, that is the time to know a man who loves to eat pounded yam.
If one would not eat pounded yam for its own sake, one can still eat it for the sake of the soup that goes with it.
If hunger forces a farmer in a particular year to eat both his yam tubers and the seed-yams, the succeeding years would still be worse because he would have no yams to eat and none to plant.
When the mother goat breaks into the yam store her kid watches her.
A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam.
When the elderly ones in a house travel, the younger ones quickly grow in experience.
Marry a man older than you and not a younger man, who will tire of you.
There is no nail varnish that can make old hands look younger.
A woman who is not successful in her own marriage has no advice to give to her younger generations.
We shall never be younger.
The chasing away of a younger son from the house of his father is an abomination to Ninurta.
A judge who despises justice, cursing with the right hand, and the chasing away of a younger son from the house of his father are abominations to Ninurta.
A smile makes you ten years younger.
A younger brother should honour an older brother. He should treat him with human dignity.
At a dangerous passage yield precedence.
The barrel can only yield the wine that's in it.
A day without work can yield a night without sleep.
To circumstances and custom the law must yield.
It will soon show which milk will yield a good curd.
Vegetable garden and mill, don't tell your neighbor how much they yield.
When the fields yield not, the saints have not.
Yield to divine power.
The evil field will evil yield.
Never say no due to pride, or yes due to weakness.
When a man says yes, his personal god says yes also.
Between a woman's "Yes” and "No” there is no room for the point of a needle.
The mouth that says "Yes,” can say "No.”.
Yes and no rule the world.
Maidens say no, and mean yes.
A timely "no" beats a hasty "yes."
A timely "no” beats a hasty "yes.”.
A hundred "no's" are less painful than one insincere "yes."
You do not run into mountains, but people yes.
The word "yes" brings trouble; the word "no" leads to no evil.
One half the troubles in this world can be traced to saying ‘yes' too quick or saying ‘no' not soon enough.
"Yes" and "no" govern the world.
My No is as good as your Yes.
Any fool can say "Ah" -- you need intelligence to say "Yes."
Any fool can say "ah” - you need intelligence to say "yes.”.
Who has said ‘yes' once already should not say ‘no' any more.
A woman who laughs at you has said yes.
A rogue says "yes” to what a rogue says.
A timely A timely "no" beats a hasty "yes."
"yes” and "no” govern the world.
Do not eat your chicken and throw its feathers in the front yard.
He was never good since the time a yard made a coat for him.
Two cocks in one yard do not agree.
He who is unable to dance blames it in the stony yard.
He who is unable to dance says that the yard is stony.
1 day 1 yard. Bagan won't move.
When a bull gets his leg broken, he is sure to go back to his yard.
Clean your own yard first before asking others to clean theirs.
He measures others with his own yard.
When yu go a jackass yard, yu noh fi chat 'bout big iyaz.
Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
Elderberries in the yard and an uncle in kiev.
Fat cats and thin birds can share a yard, but thin cats and fat birds no way.
By the yard, life is hard. By the inch, it's a cinch.
One who wants to keep their yard tidy does not reserve a plot for the weeds.
The sun will shine into our yard too.
Let no shovel-beaked bird ever enter your yard.
He who is unable to dance says that the yard is stony.
You can not tell a hungry child that you gave him food yesterday.
Today is the scholar of yesterday.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day.
All the flowers of tomorrow are in the seeds of yesterday.
If we remember the quarrels and mistakes of yesterday, we will never have someone to party together with us.
Yesterday is ashes; tomorrow wood. Only today does the fire burn brightly.
Yesterday, today and tomorrow -- these are the three days of man.
Everything in the past died yesterday, and everything in the future is born today.
Jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but never jam today.
Dry thunder that tears the sky doesn't make you forget the storm of yesterday.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision.
A good well-lived today makes every yesterday a dream of a good future, and every morning is a vision of hope.
Yesterday will not be called again.
Guluwe's two of yesterday.
Time and words can't be recalled, even if it was only yesterday.
Yesterday a cowherd, to-day a cavalier.
A slave yesterday, to-day a freedman.
No man can call again yesterday.
All the flowers of all the tomorrows are in the seeds of today and yesterday.
You can not tell a hungry child that you gave him food yesterday.
No man can call again yesterday.
Time and words can't be recalled, even if it was only yesterday.
The real owners of the land are not yet born.
Honorable is the person who is aware of his power, yet refrains from inflicting bad things onto others.
Do not rejoice over what has not yet happened.
A horse has four legs, yet it often falls.
He makes the bed soft, yet it's hard to sleep on.
Who cannot yet walk, cannot climb a ladder.
Don't buy the salt if you haven't licked it yet.
He who has not yet reached the opposite shore should not make fun of him who is drowning.
One can't give a grasshopper to a child if one has not caught it yet.
The baby has not been born yet, and yet you assert that his nose is like his grandfather's.
In my homeland I possess one hundred horses, yet if I go, I go on foot.
The baby is not yet born, and yet you say that his nose is like his grandfather's.
One may have good eyes and yet see nothing.
Cure the illness that is not yet an illness.
You are only master of food that you haven't yet eaten.
The teeth and the tongue are close neighbors, and yet they sometimes bite each other.
Who stands by the door of his house is not yet gone away.
'tis altogether vain to learn wisdom, and yet live foolishly.
No matter how many chores you finish in your house, there is always yet more to be done.
A wise woman has much to say and yet remains silent.
The tongue has no bone yet it crushes.
A diamonds father is coal, yet it regards itself as upper-class.
When a single hair has fallen from your head, you are not yet bald.
A hare is like an ass in the length of its ears, yet it is not its son.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
There are two kinds of perfect people: those who are dead, and those who have not been born yet.
The tongue is soft but constantly remains; the teeth are hard yet they fall out.
Heaven is dark and yet out of it streams clear water.
Those who have not crossed the river yet should not laugh at those who are drowning.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
Fidelity is a noble virtue, yet justice is nobler still.
A child's service is little, yet he is no little fool that despises it.
Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit.
Compliments cost nothing, yet many pay dear for them.
How many daily read the Bible, and yet pursue their course of evil.
How many daily read the Word, and yet from vice are not deterred.
The Russian knows the way, yet he asks for directions.
A dog owns nothing, yet is seldom dissatisfied.
That's a spoon ye'll sup sorrow with yet.
A young man should not marry yet, an old man not at all.
Men who have lost heart never yet won a trophy.
Though the mastiff be gentle, yet bite him not by the lip.
Michael, Michael, you have no bees, and yet you sell honey.
Be peaceful yet vigilant - a sheep will bite someone without a stick.
Crimes may be secret, yet not secure.
He is like the anchor that is always in the sea, yet does not learn to swim.
Many a one threatens and yet is afraid.
Willows are weak, yet serve to bind bigger wood.
The tongue is not steel, yet it cuts.
The calf isn't even born yet and there he is sharpening his carving knife.
A termite grows up in dry wood, and yet comes to maturity.
It's vain to learn wisdom yet live foolishly.
I never saw an oft-removed tree, nor yet an oft-removed family, that throve so well as one that settled be.
Fedot, yet not the one.
Fedot, yet not the right one.
Makes the bed soft, yet hard to sleep.
The point in question is yet undecided.
A Portuguese apprentice who can't sew, yet would be cutting out.
God take you, pound, drunk out and not yet spun.
She who does not yet know how to walk, cannot climb a ladder.
Thunder is not yet rain.
While life yet lasts, laughter and molasses.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
Man is learning all his life and yet he dies in ignorance.
Beautiful discourse is rarer than emerald, yet it can be found among the servant girls at the grindstones.
Many talk like philosophers yet live like fools.
To know and not do is not yet to know.
The food that is in the mouth is not yet in the belly.
He ain't even loss he mudda features yet.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, yet 'twill leave some mark.
Don't be like the shadow: a constant companion, yet not a comrade.
Do not anxiously hope for that which is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is already past.
The peony is beautiful, yet it is supported by a stalk.
Jails are always closed yet full, while temples are always open yet empty.
The lone wolf may yet kill as many deer as a pack.
An eel held by the tail is not yet caught.
Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed.
Though old and wise, yet still advise.
Some are very busy and yet do nothing.
When all is wet to the skin, hold out yet.
A picture is worth a thousand words, and yet picture books are for infants.
While the word is yet unspoken, you are master of it; when once it is spoken, it is master of you.
Though the bird's in the net It may get away yet.
Better is the evil known than the good which is yet to know.
The chamois climbs high and yet is caught.
We have not saddled and yet we are riding.
The mills of god grind slowly, yet they grind exceedingly small.
Good riding at two anchors men have told, For it one break, the other yet may hold.
If the young only knew; if the old only could.
Everybody has been young before, but not everybody has been old before.
Wriggling hands like young bride's legs.
The flesh of a young animal tastes flat.
The young rooster crows as he hears the old one.
The young cannot teach tradition to the old.
If a young woman says no to marriage just wait until her breasts sag.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
Choose a friend with the eyes of an old man, and a horse with the eyes of a young one.
You can't put an old head on young shoulders.
It is easier to watch over one hundred fleas than one young girl.
The crab instructs its young: "Walk straight ahead - like me.”.
The young magpie that pulls feathers out of his mother thinks that he is showing gratitude in that way.
Better than the young man's knowledge is the old man's experience.
A young branch can be straightened, a mature one breaks.
Young bamboo trees are easy to bend.
The young may die, the old must die.
If you want to be a hundred you must start young.
He who knew you when you were young will not respect you when you grow up.
The person who knew you when you were young will seldom respect you as an adult.
While young, it's all dreams; when old, all memories.
Doctors must be old and lawyers must be young.
Man is like palm-wine: when young, sweet but without strength; in old age, strong but harsh.
Love is like young rice: transplanted, still it grows.
Divorce a young woman and you make another man happy.
The mysterious road beckons the young man.
A cat will teach her young ones all the tricks, except how to jump backwards.
Only the soil knows when a young mouse is ill.
A young crocodile does not cry when he falls in the water.
Young man, countries practice witchcraft on one another.
The young cannot teach tradition to the old.
If you lie upon roses when young, you will lie upon thorns when old.
If two selfish young men sit next to a pot of water, the water spills out on the ground.
If the young palm tree wants to stay alive, it grows next to the odum tree.
The woman who tells her age is either too young to have anything to lose or too old to have anything to gain.
Every old man was once a young man but not every young man will become an old man.
What the elders see while sitting the young ones standing on their toes won't see.
Fools die young and look sickly.
Children suck the mother when they are young and the father when they are old.
Old be, or young die.
A young doctor makes a humpy churchyard.
Old men, when they marry young women, make much of death.
As the old cock crows, so does the young.
A young foal and an old horse draw not well together.
Honour the old, teach the young.
The aged in council, the young in action.
Young gamblers, old beggars.
A young doctor means a new graveyard.
A young wife is an old man's post-horse to the grave.
On poor people's beards the young barber learns his trade.
To remain young while growing old is the highest blessing.
Whore or thief young or old, welcome so you've got the gold.
Young men may die, but old men must die.
You can't put a wide head on young shoulders.
While young, it's all dreams; when old, all memories.
As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.
The young shed many skins.
Death is in front of the old person and at the back of the young person.
Youth is wasted on the young.
Praise the young and they will make progress.
A young man should not marry yet, an old man not at all.
An old cat likes young mice.
Ill fares the young bird in the urchin's hand.
You have to suffer a lot or die young.
What a young absorbs, the old loses.
The young crow is wiser than its mother.
Bend the tree while it is young.
An old horse for a young soldier.
To a young heart everything is sport.
You will use in the old what you have learned young.
If you lie upon roses when you're young, you'll lie upon thorns when you're old.
When mother cow is cropping grass, her young one watches her mouth.
An old banana leaf was once young and green.
The good die young.
See a sheaf of corn in the morning and a young woman in the evening.
Easy to change young wood shape than the old one.
The young laugh when the old fall.
Old feel the blows suffered when young.
The old know and the young suspect.
The old man looks death in the eye, the young man keeps him behind his back.
If you want a faithful dog start rearing him when he is young.
You're young if you're healthy, and rich if you have no debts.
If the young had the motivation and the old had the strength, there'd be nothing that couldn't be accomplished.
If you marry a young woman, make sure your friends stay outside.
A young wife, new bread, and green wood devastate a house.
Learned young is done old.
Take care of clothes since they are new, take care of your honor since you are young.
What the young one begs for, the grown-up throws away.
Teaching in youth is like carving in stone.
Youth likes to wander.
Praise youth and it will prosper.
Youth does not mind where it sets its foot.
Age is honorable and youth is noble.
Youth has a small head.
Youth sheds many a skin. The steed does not retain its speed forever.
Youth will have its fling.
An eagle's old age is worth a sparrow's youth.
Old age devours your youth.
Cherish youth, but trust old age.
When you get older you keep warm with the wood you gathered as a youth.
Youth is beauty, even in cattle.
Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone.
Where you will sit when you are old shows where you stood in youth.
Old age cures us of our youth.
Youth will be served.
An abundance of money ruins youth.
Mother's truth keeps constant youth.
What one is accustomed to in youth, one does in old age.
Youth is wasted on the young.
If Only youth had knowledge and old age ability.
Who is a piece of stick in youth will be a block of wood in old age.
Who is quick in youth will be diligent in old age.
Youth spent freely, old age spent in poverty.
Who fails to show restraint in their youth, will be miserable in their old age.
If you marry you'll suffer in your youth, if you don't marry you'll suffer in your old age.
The memories of one's youth make for long, long thoughts.
Old canoes can be restored, but youth and beauty cannot.
Take care of your dress from when it's new and your honor from your youth.
Guard your honor from your youth, and your weapons once you've got them in hand.
In youth we learn, in old age we understand.
Youth is a folly; maturity, a struggle; old age a remorse.
A man shows in his youth what he will be in his age.
Alone a youth runs fast, with an elder slow, but together they go far.
Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone.
The youth walks faster than the elderly but the elderly knows the road.
A youth that does not cultivate friendship with the elderly is like a tree without roots.
Youth is intoxication without wine; old age, wine without intoxication.
The Yangtse never runs backwards; man recaptures not his youth.
Age lasts; youth devours.
Youth is a blunder, manhood a struggle, old age a regret.
Where old age is evil, youth can learn no good.
Young people don't know what age is, and old people forget what youth was.
If youth knew what age would crave, it would both get and save.
youth and void and edginess ruin men.
Happy is he who knows his follies in his youth.
Rejoiced in youth, repented in age.
Fortune is like women: loves youth and is fickle.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
Praise the youth and they will come.
The old age of an eagle is better than the youth of a sparrow.
Old age and treachery will overcome youth and skill.
Rule youth well, and eild will rule it fell.
Youth and age will never agree.
If youth had the volition and if old age had the ability.
Who lives foolishly as a youth, wails in old age.
In youth we need to save for what old age will bring.
Love is the rock of youth and the shoal of old age.
Youth may stray afar yet return at last.
What the colt learns in youth his continues in old age.
If youth but had the knowledge and old age the strength.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
He that corrects not youth, controls not age.
Youth lives on hope, old age on remembrance.
If age and experience came at birth, We would have neither youth nor mirth.
He who eats a partridge in his youth will only be left with feathers in his old age.
He who runs in his youth, trots in his old age.
Wine mars beauty and destroys the freshness of youth.
We pay when old for the excesses of youth.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
An idle youth becomes in age a beggar.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
Experience is a revelation in the light of which we renounce our errors of youth for those of age. (Ambrose Bierce)
Diligent youth makes easy age.
Youth is a crown of roses, old age a crown of willows.
If only youth would know, if only old age were able.
Guard your tongue in youth, and in age you may mature a thought that will be of service to your people.
Guard your tongue in youth.
In youth you're lustful.
In childhood you are playful, in youth you are lustful in old age.
Age lasts; youth devours.
Youth is wasted on the young.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
Your words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
Youth will have its course.
Forty is the old age of youth; fifty is the youth of old age.
We expiate in old age the follies of our youth.
The reputation of a thousand years may be determined by the conduct of one hour.
Even a thief takes ten years to learn his trade.
If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain. If you want 10 years of prosperity, grow trees. If you want 100 years of prosperity, grow people.
Every camel was once upon time two years old.
A man can never be perfect in a hundred years; but he may become corrupt in less than a day.
The first hundred years are the hardest.
There are four things every person has more of than they know; sins, debt, years, and foes.
Keep a thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
Wood may remain ten years in the water, but it will never become a crocodile.
A fence lasts three years, a dog lasts three fences, a horse three dogs, and a man three horses.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll always find a use for it.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years; the slave of a woman dies in six months.
The dog's tail stays crooked even if he is buried for twelve years.
Three years will eradicate even murderous thoughts.
There is no flower that lasts ten days and no might lasts ten years.
Power lasts ten years; influence not more than a hundred.
It is better to be a bull for a year than a cow for a hundred years.
A day in prison is longer than a thousand years at large.
There's no evil that lasts a hundred years, nor a body that can endure it.
There are old men of three years old and children of a hundred.
If you are going to sit on it for three years, the seat will certainly get warm.
After three years useless things are useful too.
One moment of intense happiness prolongs life by a thousand years.
A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study.
A smile will gain you ten more years of life.
A child and a fool imagine twenty shillings and twenty years can never be spent.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
All be the same in a hundred years.
Care brings on grey hairs, and age without years.
Revenge of an hundred years old hath still its sucking teeth.
A hundred years of wrong do not make an hour of right.
One minute of patience can mean ten years of peace.
One minute of patience, ten years of peace.
There are four things in this life of which we have more than we think: faults, debts, years and enemies.
The thief who steals another one is forgiven for 100 years.
Thief who steals thief has one hundred years of pardon.
One year's seeding makes seven years weeding.
The dog's tail, even if buried for twelve years, will remain as crooked as ever.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
Every ten years one man has need of another.
One minute of patience can result in ten years of peace.
Revenge a hundred years old has still its milk-teeth.
That happens in a moment which may not happen in a hundred years.
Years know more than books.
One year ages the old, two years grow a child.
The best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago; the next best time is now.
I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years.
A threatened man lives seven years.
One day before you is better than ten years behind you.
A jug that has been mended lasts two hundred years.
Wait three years for promised.
A thousand years hence the river will run as it did.
A hundred years hence we shall all be bald.
So many years playing the marquise and she still doesn't know how to wave a fan.
It will be all the same in a hundred years.
A tree that has grown bent for thirty years cannot be straightened in one year.
A bad wife is a poor harvest for sixty years.
A bad wife is one hundred years of bad harvest.
After three years even a disaster can be good for something.
The spirit of a three-year-old lasts a hundred years.
Feed a dog for three days and it is gratefull for three years. Feed a cat for three years and it forgets after three days.
Your years will still remain the same whether you laugh or cry.
There is no flower that remains red for ten days, and no power that lasts for ten years.
A good client doesn't change shop in three years, a good shop doesn't change clients in three years.
Women are as beautiful as flowers when they are forty years old.
Virtuous for ten years is still not enough; evil for one day is too much already.
If you are planning for one year, grow rice. If you are planning for 20 years grow trees. If you are planning for centuries, grow men.
If you want a crop for one year, grow grain; if you want a crop for ten years, grow a tree; if you want a crop for a hundred years, grow men.
It takes a tree ten years to mature; it takes a man one hundred years to form.
It takes three years to learn to be a man of integrity; it only takes three days to degrade.
Better die ten years early than live ten years poor.
O man, you who do not live a hundred years, why fret a thousand minutes?
Years know more than books.
You may poke a man's fire after you've known him for seven years.
A marriage in later years sends a letter to the grave digger.
Reason does not come before years.
Summer sown corn and women's advice turn out once in every seven years.
Years and sins are always more than admitted.
It will be all one a thousand years hence.
It will be all the same a hundred years hence.
What breaks in a moment may take years to mend.
Other years other hairs.
A cup of coffee commits one to forty years of friendship.
A man is as wise as his head, not his years.
After taking ninety-nine years to climb a stairway, the tortoise falls and says there is a curse on haste.
The yew tree exists three hundred years: first green, then dry, then gone.
A horse aged thirty: don't add any more years.
If you plan for a year, plant kalo. If you plan for ten years, plant koa. If you plan for one-hundred years, teach the children.
A man one year elder to you is one cunning year elder to you.
It is easier to be a happy bachelor for a year than a widower for a month.
Better an egg this year than a chicken next year.
A wretched year has twenty-four months.
One who waits for chance may wait a year.
The cricket cries, the year changes.
A cherry year, a merry year; a plum year, a dumb year.
Women are always better the following year.
A guest sees more in an hour than the host sees in a year.
Everything is of every year.
It is better to be a bull for a year than a cow for a hundred years.
What might not happen in a year might happen in an instant.
Don't praise your wife before a year.
One day of rain far surpasses a whole year of drought.
Men have thought about their marriage a whole year long - and it lasts but one night.
Christmas comes, but once a year is enough.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
A leap year is never a good sheep year.
A snow year, a rich year.
If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.
Older than you by a day, more knowledgeable than you by a year.
Misfortune, wood, and hair, grow throughout the year.
Never praise your son-in-law until the year is out.
An hour of play discovers more than a year of conversation (does).
With art and knavery we live through half the year; with knavery and art we live through the other.
Christmas comes but once a year.
If you would be rich in a year, you may be hanged in six months.
Speak not ill of the year until it is past.
Wait for a month before you praise a horse, and for a year before you praise a woman.
Even in the tiniest little chapel there are some prayers said once a year.
A life without love is like a year without summer.
When April is rainy, and May is windy, the year will be fruitful.
If you still have money in the month of May, you'll have it the entire year.
One year ages the old, two years grow a child.
Every day a thread makes a skein in the year.
Better ride a good horse for a year, than an ass all your life.
A young ewe and an old ram, every year bring forth a lamb.
It is better to ride for half a year on a good horse than to spend your entire life riding on a mule.
It is easier to bear a child once a year than to shave every day.
A child of a year old sucks milk from the heel.
April and May make meal for the whole year.
A bad habit that lasts more than a year may turn into a custom.
A man who will go mad next year starts to roll up his sleeves this year.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
The soul of a three year old until a hundred.
When planning for a year, plant corn. When planning for a decade, plant trees. When planning for life, train and educate people.
The harvest of a whole year depends on what you sow in the springtime.
Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden.
If you are planning for a year, sow rice; if you are planning for a decade, plant trees; if you are planning for a lifetime, educate people.
If you are planning for one year, grow rice. If you are planning for 20 years grow trees. If you are planning for centuries, grow men.
If you want a crop for one year, grow grain; if you want a crop for ten years, grow a tree; if you want a crop for a hundred years, grow men.
It takes a year to make a friend, but you can lose one in an hour.
To extend your life by a year, take one less bite each meal.
Who busies himself where no profit is found remains a fool the whole year round.
With the old year leave your faults, however dear.
Year of snow fruit will grow.
One year of joy, another of comfort, and all rest of content.
He fasted for a whole year and then broke his fast with an onion.
Older than you by a day, wiser than you by a year.
The year has a wide mouth and a big belly.
Words of snow, which fell last year.
He who forces love when none is found, remains a fool the whole year round.
If you let the weeds grow for a year you will need seven to clear them.
A good year is apparent from the spring.
A good year is determined by its spring.
A servant and a cock must be kept but one year.
He who would be rich in a year gets hanged in six months.
Until a child is one year old it is incapable of sin.
There are no birds of this year in last year's nests.
None so old that he hopes not for a year of life.
In spring no one thinks of the snow that fell last year.
It will come in an hour, that will not come in a year.
It is hard to wive and thrive in a year.
If a man knew what would be dear, he would be but Merchant for a year.
A day to come seems longer than a year that's gone.
A farmer who would not work inside the rain and would not work under the sun, would have nothing to harvest at the end of the farming year.
The eye of a crow boiled at the new moon brings good luck for the New Year.
If hunger forces a farmer in a particular year to eat both his yam tubers and the seed-yams, the succeeding years would still be worse because he would have no yams to eat and none to plant.
If you find "Miss This Year" beautiful, then you'll find "Miss Next Year" even more so.
Grassy year, shitty year.
If the bread in the oven is a failure you lose a week; if the harvest is a failure you lose a year; if marriage is a failure then you lose a life.
If you plan for a year, plant kalo. If you plan for ten years, plant koa. If you plan for one-hundred years, teach the children.
You're blessed if you're here on Leap year.
Whoever goes on foot during April and May, goes on horseback the rest of the year.
When birds aren't making a mess it's a sign that it's been a bad year.
Every year after fifty brings ten ailments.
When there are lots of insects, look for a good grain year.
Dress up once a year, and dress up in cloth.
A lawyer's fee and a harlot's wages are paid in advance.
The pensioner gets the wages of the death.
Blame is the lazy man's wages.
Idleness has poverty for wages.
If you don't pay a servant his wages, then he will pay himself.
Nobody wages war with ghosts.
He cannot lead a good life who serves without wages.
The wages of sin is death.
The strong live by their own wages; the weak by the wages of their children.
If ill luck were cheese, dairy-women would go wanting work.
The skilfullest wanting money is scorned.
If deeds are wanting, all words appear mere vanity and emptiness.
There is never wanting a dog to bark at you.
Mills and wives are ever wanting.
Where luck is wanting, diligence is useless.
Refusing and wanting at the same time.
It is no good going to the river just wanting to catch a fish; you have to take a net as well.
A picture is a poem wanting words.
Real wealth consists not in having, but in not wanting.
A stupid turtle-dove is sometimes surprised by night for wanting one more grain of castor-oil plant.
A stupid turtle-dove is sometimes surprised by night for wanting.
The means were wanting, not the will.
A warrior does not complain about physical discomfort.
A warrior does not let a friend face danger alone.
A warrior fights to the death.
When a warrior goes to a battle, he does not abandon his friends.
Today I am a warrior.
Hear the warrior cry out.
If a warrior does not fight, he does not breathe.
If a warrior ignores duty, acts dishonorably, or is disloyal, he is nothing.
The execution of but one warrior brings shame to all.
Better a patient man than a warrior, one who controls his temper than one who takes a city.
The cherry blossom among flowers, the warrior among men.
The spot that makes the warrior benkei cry.
A horse may take the warrior to the battlefield but can never fight.
A warrior is not a wrestler, he's killed the moment is spear and shield are over powered.
One is not born a warrior, you become one.
The weak warrior wearing sandals overcomes the brave with a thorn in his foot.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks, but a farmer dies of old age.
Single in a field is not a warrior.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks.
Crows are never the whiter for washing themselves.
The poor are excused from washing with soap.
Whosoever eats bread without first washing his hands, it is as though he had sinned with a harlot.
It is a lonesome washing without a man's shirt in it.
God has spared the naked man from washing his clothes with soap.
Frequent washing makes not the crow whiter.
It's a lonely washing that has no man's shirt in it.
He is washing the crow.
If not by washing, then by rolling.
The child went with washing water.
All will come out in the washing.
The hungry fowl wakes early.
God helps him who wakes up early at dawn.
The smith's dog sleeps at the noise of the hammer, and wakes at the grinding of teeth.
Who wakes up early gets the God's help.
Who wakes and rises at the first cry of the songbird collects the best fruit of the night.
He who wakes up early in the morning receives a bundle of blessings.
He who wakes up and finds himself a success hasn't been asleep.
Who wakes up early, Lord God provides him.
Long lean wakes hameald cattell.
Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning.
The silence of the people is a warning for the king.
A wrong step by the leader is a warning for those following.
A warning to the wise is a blessing, to the fool an insult.
The fall of a dead leaf is a warning to the green ones.
If you can't distinguish how to whistle a festival alarm from a warning alarm, then better not alarm and let s/he who knows the difference to do the alarming.
Happy he who can take warning from the mishaps of others.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
Red sky at night is a shepherds delight, red sky in the morning is a shepherds warning.
If you can't distinguish how to whistle a festival alarm from a warning alarm.
Red sky in the morning shepherds warning.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
Giving a warning to one who is doomed (i.e. a futile task.)
The misfortune of the foolish is a warning to the wise.
Indecision is like the stepchild: if he doesn't wash his hands, he is called dirty; if he does, he is wasting the water.
She is as undecided as an orphan: if she does not wash her hands, she will be told that she is a dirty child; if she washes her hands she will be told that she is wasting water.
Indecision is like a stepchild: if he does not wash his hands, he is called dirty, if he does, he is wasting water.
To lather an ass's head is only wasting soap.
You're wasting your time trying to interest the old in new endeavors.
Wasting is a bad habit, saving is a sure income.
To lather an ass's head is only wasting soap.
A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does: If he does not wash his hands, he is accused of being dirty. If he washes his hands, he is accused of wasting water.
He who is wasting away with trouble must seek remedy.
May you have warmth in your igloo, oil in your lamp, and peace in your heart.
He that makes a fire of straw has much smoke but little warmth.
Politeness is what warmth is to wax.
The house of envy lies in the lowest hollows, golden, sunless, breathed upon by no wind, grim and filled full of inert chill, and lacking warmth, is always roiled in fog.
In a good word there are three winters' warmth; in one malicious word there is pain for six frosty months.
There is no warmth where the sun doesn't shine.
To get the warmth of fire one must stir the embers.
Needs just bread and warmth.
He that makes a fire of straw has much smoke but little warmth.
One who waits for chance may wait a year.
One who waits patiently will catch a big fish.
Everything comes to him who waits.
The fox that waits until the chicken falls from the perch dies from hunger.
He who waits shall live to see.
He who waits for a chance may wait for a long time.
He who waits for another's platter has a cold meal.
The quail waits for the stick; the idle loiterer about a place waits for a kick from an old boot.
The seed waits for its garden or ground where it will be sown.
Time waits for no one.
Man who waits for roast duck to fly into mouth must wait very, very long time.
He who waits for the moon waits for darkness.
He who moves with each day is better than another who waits for luck.
The man with no patience waits for daylight, and when it comes he'll be blind.
Time waits for no man.
He who waits for dead men's shoes, may have to go long barefoot.
The one who waits the fine day, will get the fine day.
Time passes, it waits for nobody.
He who waits gets a tailwind, and he who rows, a harbour.
Who waits hoping in plans and dreams, loses time, and collects flies and troubles.
Whoever waits for time to pass loses time.
If he waits long enough the world will be his own.
Who has time yet waits for time, comes to a time of repentance.
Envy waits on boasting.
He gives too late who waits to be asked.
He who waits till an opportunity occurs may wait for ever.
Immortal glory waits on talent.
He that waits on another man's trencher, makes many a late dinner.
He who waits for something good never waits too long.
The lucky man waits for prosperity.
He that waits for dead men's shoes may go long enough barefoot.
He that waits for a dead man's shoes may long go barefoot.
He who waits for a dead man's shoes is in danger of going barefoot.
If a centipede loses a leg, it does not prevent him from walking.
Walking slowly, even the donkey will reach Lhasa.
Crawling on hands and knees has never prevented anyone from walking upright.
Depend on your walking stick, not on other people.
Avoid suspicion: when you're walking through your neighbor's melon patch, don't tie your shoe.
When you have no companion, look to your walking stick.
From walking -- something; from sitting -- nothing.
Who is hurry, goes walking.
If one is not in a hurry, even an egg will start walking.
Walking in two is medicine.
A blind person does not forget his walking stick.
You can't look at the stars while you are walking if you have a stone in your shoe.
All of life is a dream walking, all of death is a going home.
Don't look back when you are walking along the edge of a wall.
One step at a time is good walking.
If someone is walking towards you, you don't need to tell him "come here.”.
When a wolf is mentioned, he is already walking round the garden.
A dog may die from too much walking, but a fool dies from worrying about someone else's business.
Who runs more, lacks walking.
Old people's walking teaches young ones to walk.
Men are equal when they are going and walking.
Walking over corpses.
A fully grown up tree cannot be bent into a walking stick.
Crawling on hands and knees has never prevented anyone from walking upright.
Walk like you have 3000 ancestors walking behind you.
Riding on a goat is better than the very best walking.
Don't run, you'll forget walking!
To him who watches, everything reveals itself.
To the person who watches, everything reveals itself.
When mother cow is cropping grass, her young one watches her mouth.
The grasshopper flies about, but the kingfisher watches him.
When the mother goat breaks into the yam store her kid watches her.
The tail of the cow watches to the right and left.
To him that watches, everything is revealed.
One eats, another watches; that's how revolutions are born.
The chicken also knows when it's morning, but still watches the mouth of the cock.
When the mother goat breaks into the yam store her kid watches her.
The biggest rascal you'll probably ever need to deal with watches you shavin' his face in the mirror every mornin'.
A wise man doesn't see his foot on the ground, he watches his next step.
The eye watches always ahead, but the poor nose is in danger.
Hatred watches while friendship sleeps.
Justice watches the eye like a bird.
Go and wake up your luck.
Don't wake up trouble while it sleeps quietly.
If you go to sleep with the blind, you'll wake up squinting.
Early sleep and early wake up, gives health and makes you grow.
Sleep with a woman and she will make sure you wake up.
Snuff at a wake is fine if there's noboby sneezing over the snuff box.
When ill-luck falls asleep let nobody wake her.
If you wake up in the morning and feel no pain, it is to be feared that you died in the night.
When sorrow is asleep, wake it not.
If you go to bed hungry, you'll wake up without having slept.
Those who sleep with children wake up with shit on their asses.
The hardest person to wake up is the person who is already awake.
Go to bed supperless and you will wake without debt.
You can't wake a person who is pretending to be asleep.
If you sleep with targs, you'll wake up with glob flies.
Dead man is hard to wake.
It's too late to rise early when you wake eleven o'clock.
The opportunity that God sends does not wake up those that are asleep.
When sleeping women wake, mountains move.
Do not wake one who is sleeping; you will fall asleep yourself.
Wake not a sleeping lion.
When you wake up in the morning you see the other person's butt.
If you choose to lie down with dogs, you must be prepared to wake up with fleas.
Lie down with dogs, wake up with fleas.
Go and wake up your cook.
He who knows not and knows not that he knows not is a fool. Shun him. He who knows not and knows that he knows not is a child. Teach him. He who knows and knows not that he knows is asleep. Wake him. He who knows and knows that he knows is a wise man. Follow him.
Kiils the victim and walks in his wake.
He who goes to bed with dogs, will wake up with fleas.
When sorrow is asleep wake it not.
He who knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is a fool, shun him; He who knows not, and knows that he knows not, is a child, teach him. He who knows, and knows not that he knows, is asleep, wake him. He who knows, and knows that he knows, is wise, follow him.
Wake not a sleeping dog.
Golden dreams make men wake hungry.
Life is just like a dream-but don't wake me.
Wake not a sleeping cat.
When ill-luck sleeps, let no one wake her.
He who sleeps with a blind man will wake up cross-eyed.
Wake not a sleeping lion.
When you know that people are watching you, there are things that you don't do.
Each to his own and God watching over everyone.
Zeal is like fire: it needs both feeding and watching.
We learn by watching and listening.
You can't spread a net to catch a bird that is watching you.
I don't sow ground nuts when the monkey is watching.
Smile... heaven is watching!
Watching women is labour in vain.
Dance as if no one were watching. Sing as if no one were listening. And live every day as if it were your last.
If skill could be gained by watching, every dog would become a butcher.
Those who derive fun watching lunatics, out to have one as a child or relation to know the pains of it.
There is little use in watching a bad woman.
If skill could be gained by watching, every dog would become a butcher.
Watching what you say is your best friend.
Waste makes want.
If you try to cleanse others - like soap, you will waste away in the process!
Waste not want not.
If you try to cleanse others - just like soap, you will waste away in the process.
Do not waste your time looking for soft ground to drive your spade in.
Haste makes waste and waste makes want.
Study without reflection is a waste of time; reflection without study is dangerous.
Those who take medicine and neglect their diet waste the skill of the physician.
Don't waste good iron for nails or good men for soldiers.
By continually striving for the best, one may waste good opportunities.
Where there is action, there is waste.
If the deceased is no good, one shouldn't waste good candles on him.
He who studies does not waste his time.
Many seek good nights and waste good days.
To seek without finding, equals waste of time.
Never in speech with a foolish knave shouldst thou waste a single word.
Haste makes waste.
Waste not want not.
Don't waste too many stones on one bird.
Though you live near a forest, do not waste firewood.
He who asks for the meaning of a proverb has called her/his mother's dowry a waste.
Those who waste time only hurt themselves.
It was probably a waste of time anyway.
When the wine runs to waste in the cellar, he mends the cask.
Do not waste your ginger on pigs.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
If you want to be happy, love the one who loves you, because it's a waste of time to love someone who doesn't love you.
Haste makes waste.
They sowed "if only" and "if found", and wind and waste sprang up.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
A bad sheep puts the herd to waste.
No time to waste like the present.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
Enough and no waste is as good as a feast.
Ninety percent I'll spend on good times, women and Irish Whiskey. The other ten percent I'll probably waste. – Tug McGraw
No dealing with a revengeful man.
We celebrated at the wax door, and all the time the honeycomb was empty within.
Neither promise wax to the saint, nor cakes to the child.
Too much wax burns the church.
The law has a nose of wax.
Laws have wax noses.
You cannot kill an elephant with bullets of wax.
The spirit of women is made of quicksilver; their heart of wax.
The same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay.
People with wax heads shouldn't walk in the sun.
If your head is wax, do not walk in the sun.
He has discovered the sealing wax.
He that has a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
First harvest honey and wax during the day, then dance and play in the open during the evening.
Quickly, quickly because the wax is melting.
The same heat that melts wax, bakes clay.
He who has a head of wax must not go near the fire.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
Who has a head of wax should not be in the sunshine.
He who has a wax head must not go near the fire.
All waiting is long.
It is no use waiting for your ship to come in unless you have sent one out.
The water of the river flows on without waiting for the thirsty man.
Waiting is futile for whomever wants to kiss someone's backside.
He who solves a problem with a problem will always have a problem in waiting.
He that feeds himself from waiting could die of hunger.
The waiting man thinks the time long.
A waiting appetite kindles many a spite.
It's ill waiting for dead men's shoes.
Nothing is worse than waiting or chasing.
Coyote is always out there waiting, and Coyote is always hungry.
We are the ones we have been waiting for.
To wait for luck is the same as waiting for death.
If someone is waiting for something important they wouldn't die until they achieve it.
The worm that exposes itself on the ground is waiting for a lucky bird to devour it.
Fixing the known is better than waiting for the unknown.
At night one takes eels, it is worth waiting sometimes.
Even the highest tree has an axe waiting at its foot.
It's good to hope, it's the waiting that spoils it.
People count the faults of those who keep them waiting.
He who is waiting for someone else's bowl often dines late.
The while we keep a man waiting, he reflects on our shortcomings.
Waiting for a rabbit to hit upon a tree and be killed in order to catch it.
If while climbing a tree you insist on going beyond the top, the earth will be waiting for you.
Among the weak, the strongest is the one who doesn't forget his weakness.
Hate not the man, but the weakness.
Ingratitude is a kind of weakness; the clever are never ungrateful.
The weakness of the enemy makes our strength.
The weakness of an enemy forms part of our own strength.
Some forgiveness is weakness.
When you enter a great enterprise, free your soul from weakness.
It is a sign of weakness just to let things happen.
A true gentleman will respect a woman even in her weakness.
In a wealthy man's house there is no lean dog.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. (1639)
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
Better educated than wealthy.
If the collective farm is wealthy, the farmer is happy.
A wealthy man can afford anything except a conscience.
If you become a dog, turn into the dog of a wealthy family.
When a man is wealthy he may wear an old cloth.
The Wealthy man has even his crow laying him eggs.
A bequest, a found treasure, and parsimony make a man wealthy.
A wealthy man is a wise man: a poor man knows nothing.
A wealthy man can err with impunity.
To be wealthy and demand more is an abomination to a god.
Never check the teeth of a horse that has been given by a wealthy landowner.
When a man is wealthy, he may wear an old cloth.
Early to bed and early to rise makes people healthy, wealthy and wise.
A poor man with intelligence is wealthy.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
You need a brother, without one you're like a person rushing to battle without a weapon.
Complaining is the weak's weapon.
A secret is a weapon and a friend.
A weapon is an enemy even to its owner.
You have choosen your weapon, so fight.
Not the glittering weapon fights the fight, but rather the hero's heart.
An insolent tongue is a bad weapon.
A weapon which you don't have in your hand won't kill a snake.
Any weapon is dangerous even to a person handling it.
The joke is the weapon of the witty; being serious is the shield of the stupid.
Necessity is a strong weapon.
With his own weapon do I stab him.
A weapon is an enemy even to its owner.
A weapon that you don't have in your hand will not kill a snake. Looking for something can get in the way of finding it.
When it's warm the pea loses its pod.
What I do not know will not keep me warm.
When all things spoke the potato said, ‘set me warm, dig me warm, eat me warm, that's all i want.'
One man's house burns so that another may warm himself.
Cold hearts can find warm words.
A woman's beauty cannot warm a winter's night.
Coffee has two virtues, it's wet and it's warm.
When you get older you keep warm with the wood you gathered as a youth.
A borrowed coat does not keep one warm.
A warm fire is better than any delicious food.
A warm fire is better than delicious cooked rice.
Cold hands warm heart.
When a snake gets warm on ice, then a German will wish well to a Czech.
He who sleeps along keeps long cold, two soon warm each other.
Cold hands, warm heart.
The belly warm, the foot at rest.
Warm food, warm friendships.
It's no shame to look into the warm spring sun and regret a lost limb.
No bread is too hard for warm coffee.
Pissing in your shoes won't keep your feet warm for long.
It is good to warm oneself by another's fire.
Warm a frozen snake and it will be the first to bite you.
When thou seest thy house in flames, go warm thyself by it.
Listening to a liar is like drinking warm water.
The cloth of shame does not warm and if it does, it does so only briefly.
You warm up something for ten days and it goes cold in one.
Words that come from the heart stay warm three winters long.
Of all the female qualities a warm heart is the most valuable.
Better a little fire to warm us than a big one to burn us.
The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm.
A borrowed cloak does not keep one warm.
When old horses get warm, they are not easily held in.
For rich and poor alike the womb is equally warm.
Firelight will not let you read fine stories, but it's warm and won't let you see the dust on the floor.
Let me go warm, and folks may laugh.
Since the house is on fire I will warm myself at the blaze.
Since the house is on fire, let us warm ourselves.
Strike the iron while it is warm.
He who is close to the fire, will get warm best.
Warm water never forgets that it was once cold.
Who has cold hands is in love, who has warm hands is loved.
Eat warm and drink cold.
The old never lack for a story when they're standing in the sun or in front of a warm fireplace.
Break the soil when it's moist, plow with the warm weather, and do the seeding on time.
Some who mean only to warm, burn themselves.
Africa is a cold land where the sun is warm.
The paunch warm, the foot sleepy.
Let me go warm, and folks may laugh.
Warm bed, cold food.
Some man bu'n dem hand when they only mean to warm dem.
A single kind word keeps one warm for three winters.
June damp and warm does the farmer no harm.
No man ever wore a scarf as warm as his daughter's arm around his neck.
The head and feet keep warm; the rest will take no harm.
Rain beats on a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots.
The rain wets the leopard's spots but does not wash them off.
Wash your hands in the flowing Ganges.
It's best to wash one's soiled linen at home.
A woman who likes to wash will find water.
One washes the body in vain if one does not wash the soul.
The monkey will never wash with the same water twice.
Even though chickens don't wash, their eggs are still white.
Smack a tray of water and you get to wash your face.
One cannot wash a blackamoor white.
A Single hand cannot wash itself even in the Danube river.
Dirty water does not wash clean.
Still waters wash out banks.
He is like water shaking in a wash tub.
A man who lives on the bank of a river does not use spittle to wash his hands.
If someone isn't handsome by nature, it's useless for them to wash over and over again.
If you want to die quickly, wash your head and go to sleep.
Hands wash each other.
Indecision is like the stepchild: if he doesn't wash his hands, he is called dirty; if he does, he is wasting the water.
She is as undecided as an orphan: if she does not wash her hands, she will be told that she is a dirty child; if she washes her hands she will be told that she is wasting water.
No matter how thoroughly a crow may wash, it remains ever black.
Wash your hands often, your feet seldom, and your head never.
Bathe other people's children but don't wash behind their ears.
Better to wash an old kimono than borrow a new one.
A child who knows how to wash his hands will eat with the chiefs.
A man who lives on the banks of the Niger should not wash his hands with spittle.
Two is good, one alone cannot wash his back.
Indecision is like a stepchild: if he does not wash his hands, he is called dirty, if he does, he is wasting water.
Rain beats a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots.
Rain wets the leopard's spots, but it doesn't wash them off.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
They who do not wash well, do not bleach well.
One hand must wash the other, or both will be dirty.
He who lies down in the wash will be eaten by swine.
Who bathes his hands in blood will have to wash them with tears.
Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop, only a few sit down to his table.
One hand washes the other and both wash the face.
One hand washes the other and both of them wash the face.
One hand washes the other, both hands wash the face.
Wash a dog, comb a dog, still a dog remains a dog.
One does not wash one's dirty linen in public.
You don't wash blood away with blood but with water.
If you want to be dead, wash your head and go to bed.
As numerous as the leaves of the oak, or the waves which wash the island.
Repentant tears wash out the stain of guilt.
A hand doesn't wash alone.
You must wash your hands of it.
A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does: If he does not wash his hands, he is accused of being dirty. If he washes his hands, he is accused of wasting water.
Wash your hands in the flowing Ganges.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
Bathe a dog, wash a dog, still it stinks of dog.
When rain beats on a leopard it wets it, but rain does not wash out its spots.
You cannot wash charcoal white.
Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop.
One does not wash one's dirty linen in public.
Worries wash away better with soup.
To wash an ass's head is but loss of time and soap.
If you are wearing shoes, you don't fear the thorns.
Before you ask a man for clothes, look at the clothes that he is wearing.
Never watch a bonfire wearing a straw coat.
Concealing truth is like wearing embroidered clothes and traveling by night.
A tiger wearing a bell will starve.
Don't trust a man wearing a better suit than your own.
Luxury begins the day a man starts wearing shoes.
The fear of God is not wearing a white turban.
When you are polite, the others think they are wearing flowers.
Wearing a mended dress is better than being naked.
Boys seldom make passes at girls wearing glasses.
The weak warrior wearing sandals overcomes the brave with a thorn in his foot.
You are not a fully fledged sailor unless you have sailed under full sail, and you have not built a wall unless you have rounded a corner.
Beware a rickety wall, a savage dog, and a quarrelsome person.
The weakest go to the wall.
To protest and knock one's head against the wall is what everybody can do.
When your neighbor's wall breaks, your own is in danger.
The mouse in the wall may look at a cat, but he is wise not to squeak about it.
He who fights with a wall will only hurt his hand.
If you don't seal a crack, you will build wall.
Quiet worms will bore a hole in the wall.
Three things to fear: a crumbling wall, an angry dog, and a shrew.
A wall between increases love.
One may see through a wall, if there's a hole in it.
The sick man is vexed with the flies on the wall.
Hard upon hard does not make a good wall.
Hard with hard doesn't make a good wall.
A guest sticks a nail in the wall even if he stays but one night.
A guest hammers a nail in the wall even if he stays only one night.
Hard upon hard never made a good wall.
Don't paint the image of a demon on a wall.
Don't paint the devil on the wall.
A white wall is the fool's paper.
You cannot build a wall with one stone.
A clear conscience is a wall of brass.
Fortune is like a wall that falls on those who lean on it.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, yet 'twill leave some mark.
If you do not fill up a crack, you will have to build a wall.
Do not tear down the east wall to repair the west wall.
One family builds the wall, two families enjoy it.
When a centipede dies on the wall it does not fall down.
The great wall stands; the builder is gone.
Don't look back when you are walking along the edge of a wall.
If you don't mend up a small crack on the wall you end up building the entire wall.
It needs a high wall to keep out fear.
It is bad to lean against a falling wall.
He is a fool and ever shall, Who writes his name upon a wall.
A white wall is the fool's paper.
Hard with hard makes not the stone wall.
It is not good to paint the devil on the wall.
There is no point in running ones head against the wall.
Even the wall has an ear.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, it will at least leave a mark.
You should not paint the devil on the wall.
Nanny-goat neber cratch him back till him see wall.
The weak who opposes the strong, is like the jug that collides with the wall.
You get a lot of these blows, said the busy bee when he flew against a brick wall.
You cannot get oil out of a wall.
Do not tell your secrets behind a wall or a hedge.
It's like talking to a brick wall.
You talk to a wall!
A mouse will put the finishing stroke to a castle wall.
Hard things alone will not make a wall.
It concerns you, too, when your neighbor's wall is on fire.
Derive the oil of a wall.
Door, I'm speaking to you. Wall, you listen.
Can you paint the outer wall neglecting the inner wall?
Looks just like a devil ripped off the wall of the church of Raisio.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
If everyone is going to dance, who, then, would watch?
Do not let the cat watch over the bacon.
Before you marry, watch what you do.
It is easier to watch over one hundred fleas than one young girl.
Watch your character; it becomes your destiny.
Don't trust a hungry man to watch your rice.
How beautiful to watch the rain and not get wet.
Never watch a bonfire wearing a straw coat.
A person of high principles is one who can watch an entire chess game without making a comment.
Those who play the game do not see it as clearly as those who watch.
Watch your step when you walk: you may find nothing but you will not stumble.
A girl, a vineyard, an orchard, and a bean-field, are hard to watch.
Watch the faces of those who bow low.
Good watch prevents misfortune.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Don't marry a good-looking bride for you'll have to watch her.
Man's mind is a watch that needs winding daily.
Watch out lest the canoe land on a rocky reef.
He that plays at racket must watch the ball.
He who would catch a rogue must watch behind the door.
Bad watch often feeds the wolf.
If you want to watch, you'd better keep quiet.
If you must negotiate, watch your enemy's eyes.
If you watch your pot, your food will not burn.
Less good than they say for the sons of men is the drinking oft of ale: for the more they drink, the less can they think and keep a watch o'er their wits.
Let no man glory in the greatness of his mind, but rather keep watch o'er his wits.
Catch the bird but watch for the wave.
The law helps those who watch, not those who sleep.
Eyes watch but cannot take.
Watch the fire burn on the other side of the river.
Get the coffin ready and watch the man mend.
A man of high principles is someone who can watch a chess game without passing comment.
Sit atop the mountain and watch the tigers fight.
A guard dog cannot watch two homes at once.
Watch out for wooden nickels.
If you don't believe in cooperation, watch what happens to a wagon when one wheel comes off.
A broken watch is right two times a day.
If your neighbour visits mecca once, watch out for him.
One should watch out for a very trifling or lame reason given for something that has been done.
If you think you've reached the top, watch out, you can fall just as quickly.
Do what you have to do and don't watch what others do.
Watch out for the unexpected mushroom.
Treat me like a rabbi; watch me like a thief.
It's good to watch the rain from a dry standpoint.
Watch out for a bad woman and never trust a good one.
Harm watch, harm catch.
The fox that tarries long is on the watch for prey.
Rise early and watch, labour and catch.
Not to watch your workmen is to lose your money.
When the child cuts its teeth, death is on the watch.
Watch out for the dog that doesn't bark and the man who says nothing.
When the old dog barks it is time to watch.
He keeps watch over a good castle who has guarded his own constitution.
Time is money, said the unemployed when sold his watch.
To watch us dance is to hear our hearts speak.
Good watch prevents harm.
A useless watch dog barks but stays far away.
Some people make things happen, some watch things happen, while others wonder what has happened.
Begin to weave and God will give the thread.
Weave in faith and God will find the thread.
Don't stand by the water and long for fish; go home and weave a net.
What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over chitterlings is ready for marriage.
You don't spin, you don't weave, or wind, so where did you get this pile of money?
You would weave a rope of sand.
Do not put in more warp than you can weave.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over.
Imitate the sundial's ways, count only the pleasant days.
Do not walk in God's ways on someone else's behalf.
There's only 2 ways: go cracy, or go extraordinary.
The ways of the immoral are always predictable.
If you are praised by a villain, mend your ways at once.
There as many ways of making a living as seeds of grass.
When fate throws a dagger at you, there are only two ways to catch it: by the blade or by the handle.
Other days, other ways.
Every story can be told in different ways.
Smooth words make smooth ways.
I am in a place where three ways meet.
Sharing and giving are the ways of God.
All ways lead to the mill.
Rice is all one but they are many ways of cooking it.
There are only two ways to reach the truth -- with literature and agriculture.
Follow the good and learn their ways.
There are more ways than one to kill a cat.
There are more ways to kill a dog than by choking him on peanut butter.
You can't have it both ways.
Old friends and old ways ought not to be disdained.
There are more ways of killing a dog than choking it with butter.
There are many ways of killing a pig other than by choking it with butter.
There are many ways of killing a dog without choking him with butter.
The peasant is like the monk in many ways.
Short cuts are long ways round.
The good ways are many. There are many right ways of doing things. All roads lead to Rome.
The door swings both ways.
The law is read in nine ways and always right.
The torah can be interpreted in 49 different ways.
There are more ways of killing a dog than hanging it.
Where the heart is willing it will find a thousand ways, but where it is unwilling it will find a thousand excuses.
There are five ways in which to become wise: be silent.
There are more ways of killing a cat than choking it with cream.
The businessman is only judged in two ways: successful or failure.
There are seventy ways of interpreting the bible.
There's mair ways o' killing a dog than hanging him.
Good things come to those who wait.
Seven people don't wait for one.
Time and tide wait for no man.
The dying person cannot wait for the shroud to be woven.
One who waits for chance may wait a year.
If a young woman says no to marriage just wait until her breasts sag.
You can wait till the cows come home.
Sit on the bank of a river and wait: Your enemy's corpse will soon float by.
They wait three years for what was promised.
Let him attack who will; the strong wait.
When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes.
When you wait for tomorrow it never comes. When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes.
Let the first urge pass, wait for the second.
He may say that he loves you, wait and see what he does for you.
If you wait, there will come nectar - like fair weather.
If you wait long enough, it will be good weather.
Don't wait for an anthill to build up in your mushroom better attack its origin sooner than later.
Wait horse for green grass.
He who wants milk should not sit in the middle of a field and wait for a cow to back up to him.
Wait time and place to take your revenge, for it is never well done in a hurry.
Wait for a month before you praise a horse, and for a year before you praise a woman.
He who waits for a chance may wait for a long time.
Beat the dog; wait for its master.
Wait until the tree has fallen before you jump over it.
Wait until it is night before saying that it has been a fine day.
Everything in time comes to him who knows how to wait.
The future is for those who know how to wait.
Wait three years for promised.
When a good offer comes for your daughter, don't wait till her father returns from market.
Sit and wait for the good chestnuts.
If you wait for the roasted liver to cool it will get cold in someone else's mouth.
Do not wait until tomorrow to hunt.
If greedy wait, hot will cool.
Wait till you trough put, then bubble in it.
Wait a minute! wait a minute! harms the stomach.
If you find the river flooded, wait.
To wait for luck is the same as waiting for death.
Sleep and wait for good luck.
Pluck flowers as they bloom; wait and you'll have only the twigs.
Man who waits for roast duck to fly into mouth must wait very, very long time.
If you wait be prepared to be stung by the bees.
If you want to know how the true story goes, wait till the arguments start.
If you wait you may never start.
If you wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes. If you don't wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Weak men wait for opportunities, strong men make them.
Wait for the cat to jump.
A willing helper does not wait until he is asked.
Deceit is in haste, but honesty can wait a fair leisure.
If you have learnt to wait, you may be Queen of Sweden.
For a good dinner and a gentle wife you can afford to wait.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Wait, is a hard word to the hungry.
Wait for the night before saying that the day has been beautiful.
You never wait too long, when you wait for something good.
Who waits for a heritage may have to wait long.
He gets a tailwind who bothers to wait.
Recognize gladly great exploits, but wait a while first.
If you wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes. If you don't wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes.
One must have to wait till the evening of one's life time to know what gratitude to pay to one's guardian spirit.
It is good to wait for a man that is alive.
Wait for time and lose time.
When the food is cooked there is no need to wait before eating it.
To wait is not to tremble.
All things come to those who wait.
Wait and see.
Tide and time wait for no man.
He who waits till an opportunity occurs may wait for ever.
Meaning: Wait too long and the opportunity is sure to vanish.
Who by himself can do anything, do not wait for others to do.
Wait, steed, to graze on green grass.
The beggars will be sent onto Kemijoki-river's ice in the spring and then we'll wait 'till the ice melts.
Just wait, frost, the summer will come!
Wait and see.
Wait till it is night before saying it has been a fine day.
You dont throw stones at an approching craclin noise in the bush wait and see what is it first.
If you wait for the downfall of the king, god will not make it sound.
Tomorrow is close if you wait it.
You can wait as much as you want, but it's useless.
Better wait on the cook than the doctor.
He who waits dies, he who makes others wait lives.
If you would resemble the vulture, look out for a carcase. [Wait for dead men's shoes.].
To get rid of anger, first weed out the bitter roots.
The weed of arrogance grows on a dunghill.
De bes a field mus' hab weed.
Arrogance is a weed that grows mostly on a dunghill.
One ill weed mars a whole pot of pottage.
The evil weed produces the largest number of weeds.
Dig the hoe in well in the vineyard and pull out the bad growth and the weed.
Ill weed grows fast.
Bad weed never dies out.
The weed of arrogance grows on a dunghill.
Jabber, Emelya – your week.
It's a bad start on the week for the man who is hanged on a monday.
A sabbath well-spent brings a week of content.
Who goes for a day in the forest should take bread for a week.
This week passed on quickly, the day after tomorrow is already Wednesday, the man said.
If you travel for a day, take bread for a week.
For the diligent, a week has seven days; for the slothful, seven tomorrows.
If you would be happy for a week take a wife; if you would be happy for a month kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life plant a garden.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter a pig and you will be happy for a month; become a priest and you will be happy for the rest of your life.
Any wealth that takes only a market week to acquire is sure to contain in it things for which the gods will surely come to make claims.
If the bread in the oven is a failure you lose a week; if the harvest is a failure you lose a year; if marriage is a failure then you lose a life.
There isn't a Holy Week without the fifty days, nor the fifty days without the Sirocco.
If the North Wind takes to blowing, it will rain for a week.
Feel free to jabber, Emelya-it's your week.
The wolf does that in the course of the week which hinders him from going to mass on Sunday.
Sunday clears away the rust of the whole week. (Joseph Addison)
In Töysä they speak only three words a week.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter.
Do not walk into a snake pit with your eyes open.
Don't let women who attract attention walk behind you.
Who cannot yet walk, cannot climb a ladder.
In the village without dogs the farmers walk without sticks.
Walk a mile in my moccasins to learn where they pinch.
You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather.
If you let everyone walk over you, then you become a carpet.
If you walk with your feet your shoe will get worn, if you walk with your head, your hat.
The crab instructs its young: "Walk straight ahead - like me.”.
Walk your own road and bear your own load.
There's no reason to walk on the branches when the trunk is so thick.
When on an unenjoyable walk, walk faster.
I have to learn how to walk on three legs says the hyena for when I am old.
Do not walk in God's ways on someone else's behalf.
If a centipede loses a leg, it can still walk.
The crow wanted to mimic the pigeon's walk and forgot his own.
Crabs teach their offspring to walk straight.
It is better to walk fast than to grow angry at the forest.
I only have my nails to scratch with and my feet to walk on.
Don't try to run before you can walk.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
The miracle is not to fly in the air, or to walk on the water, but to walk on the earth.
Do not walk behind us, we may not lead; do not walk in front of us, we may not follow; walk besides us, so that we may guide each other.
With one child you may walk; with two you may ride; when you have three, at home you must bide.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
After dinner, rest; after supper walk a mile.
After lunch, rest; after dinner take a walk.
The secret to success is to walk forward.
If you don't know the way, walk slowly.
Bandage up your finger and take a walk in the village to see how many medical people you will meet.
Watch your step when you walk: you may find nothing but you will not stumble.
Learn to walk before you run.
Old horse doesn't learn how to walk.
Blind men have no need to walk.
You walk so long with a jar for water, until the handle breaks off.
Eat according to the limits of your provisions; walk according to the length of your step.
There are men who walk through the woods and see no trees.
Where the heart loves, there the legs walk.
When crab walk too much him lose him claw.
Walk better dan sidong.
Cockroach neber so drunk him walk a fowl yard.
Through falls and stumbles, one learns to walk.
Through bumps, one learns to walk.
Tell me who you walk with, and I'll tell you who you are.
The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully.
Walk in the valley of our ancestors, learn of the history, and marvel at the beauty.
Falling teaches us to walk safely.
All are not cooks that walk with long knives.
A mile walk with a friend has only one hundred steps.
The church is near but the road is icy; the bar is far away but I'll walk carefully.
When the task accomplished, feel free to take a walk.
Restless feet may walk into a snake pit.
She who does not yet know how to walk, cannot climb a ladder.
Do not judge your neighbor until you walk two moons in his moccasins.
May the Great Spirit walk with you.
Walk lightly in the spring; mother earth is pregnant.
As a crab walks, so walk its children.
When the leg does not walk, the stomach does not eat.
Slowly, slowly, even an egg will walk.
Little by little an egg will walk.
If you can walk, you can dance; If you can talk, you can sing.
We do not walk on our legs, but on our will.
Better to walk without knowing where than to sit doing nothing.
It is better to walk than curse the road.
To follow the path, look to the master, follow the master, walk with the master, see through the master, become the master.
Sit, walk, or run, but don't wobble.
If crab don't walk 'bout crab don't eat.
The jaws have nothing to chew if the feet do not walk.
The mouth does not eat if the feet do not walk and the hands work.
Good looking and good luck don't always walk the same road.
Don't try to walk before you can crawl.
Sweet and sour walk hand in hand.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
Some people like to make of life a garden, and to walk only within its paths.
Without the aid of the divine, man cannot walk even an inch.
The careful foot can walk anywhere.
He who hurries cannot walk with dignity.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
If you walk on snow you cannot hide your footprints.
One generation builds the street on which the next will walk.
A child who protested when being stripped on the back by its mother, it's humbled by the scorching sun when left to walk.
With time an egg will walk.
The mouth does not eat if the feet do not walk and the hands work.
It doesn't matter how slowly you walk, just as long as you don't stop.
Sweet and sour walk hand in hand.
He who doesn't know how a snake smells shouldn't walk into the forest.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
The baby who always gets carried will never learn to walk.
Big flies break the spider's web.
Laws, like the spider's web, catch the fly and let the hawk go free.
All dreams spin out from the same web.
Words are like the spider's web: a shelter for the clever ones and a trap for the not-so-clever.
What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.
For a web begun God sends thread.
Friends tie their purses with a spider's web.
It will be an ill web to bleitch.
The spider that knows what it will gain sits waiting patiently in its web. The praying mantis is never tired waiting all day.
For a web begun God sends thread.
The spider's web lets the rat escape and catches the fly.
Where there is fish, there is water.
Draw water from the new well, but do not spit in the old one.
The ear cannot hold as much water as it does news.
Only water in your hands can satisfy your thirst.
Blood is thicker than water.
Water hollows out the stone not by force, but by persistence.
Whoever can walk on water is probably made of straw.
The coward sweats in water.
A mule can swim seven different strokes but the moment he sees the water he forgets them all.
The hungry dream of bread, the thirsty of water.
The horse that arrives early gets good drinking water.
Blood is thicker than water.
In the ocean, one does not need to sow water.
The word of a woman is a bundle of water.
If you are going to drown, do not try it in shallow water.
Like two drops of water.
Water and milk do not mix.
Carrying water to the sea.
Storm in a glass of water.
Once burned by milk you will blow on cold water.
With water make rivers, with rice make armies.
Still water runs deep.
Prepare yourself for when the water comes up to your knees.
Wood may remain ten years in the water, but it will never become a crocodile.
The toad likes water, but not when it's boiling.
The twig that falls in the water will never become a fish.
Taking water from the same well doesn't make all the wives' gravy taste good.
When the water rises, the fish eat the ants; when the water falls, the ants eat the fish.
It is only the water that is spilled; the bowl is not broken.
Children's love is like water in a basket.
A lobster loves water, but not when he's being cooked in it.
Water always finds a way out.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
On a rainy day many offer to water the chickens.
To ask a favor from a miser is like trying to make a hole in water.
The water in which one drowns is always an ocean.
Don't throw out the dirty water until you have the clean water in.
If you want to drown yourself, don't torture yourself with shallow water.
Drawn wells have sweetest water.
The water has passed his head.
He doesn't see water, otherwise he is a skilled swimmer.
he makes the water muddy to fish.
There is water in the jug, and we're going around thirsty.
When the water goes uphill, the frog sings AbuAta.
Soft water on hard rock, beats so much that it perforates it.
A jug carries water until its handle breaks off.
A coconut shell full of water is a sea to an ant.
Man is like a bubble of water on the ocean.
Never use a dwarf to measure the depth of the water.
Worldly prosperity is like writing on water.
You cannot separate water by beating it with a fork.
One person can burn water, while another can't even burn oil.
The scalded dog fears cold water.
Water in the mouth before eating; water in the eyes when the bill comes.
When drinking water, think about the source.
Words are mere bubbles of water; deeds are drops of gold.
Having drunk the country's water, one should obey the country's laws.
The rubbish we speak is like froth on the water, actions are drops of gold.
He who wants to go fishing must not be afraid of the water.
A clay pot of water is never hot-tempered.
Everyone tries to make the water flow to his mill.
The fly on the back of a water buffalo thinks that it's taller than the buffalo.
The army is the poison and the people are the water in which the poison is mixed.
A woman who likes to wash will find water.
You can take a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
Rippling water shows lack of depth.
Calm water does not mean there are no crocodiles.
The water of the river flows on without waiting for the thirsty man.
Those who get to the river early drink the cleanest water.
If the river sounds, it's because it has water.
The lazy ox drinks dirty water.
Do not fear a stain that disappears with water.
When it rains, collect the water.
A child without a mother is like a fish in shallow water.
Water can wear away even the hardest rock.
For the benefit of the flowers, we water the thorns, too.
Every course of water has its source.
No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim.
One does not follow the footprints in the water.
Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst.
Don't think there are no sharks because the water is calm.
Done in by his own trade like a water merchant in the rain.
People are like eels in the water, they wander this way and that.
Just as a bamboo cane forms a round jet of water, so taking counsel together makes men of one mind.
Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face.
Where there are birds, there is water.
The monkey will never wash with the same water twice.
Spilled water is better than a broken jar.
He is like a deaf man at a wedding procession.
Always sample a maidens charms before the wedding.
The wife cries before the wedding, the husband after.
Carry bread in your hood to Don Garcia's wedding.
You should have done it on the wedding night, you fool.
Borrowing is like a wedding, repaying is like mourning.
The death of not a relative is a wedding.Compared to a death of a relative.
Beat your wife on the wedding day, and your married life will be happy.
If someone says "there is a wedding ceremony in the clouds,” then the women would soon arrive with their ladders.
There are three things that have to be done quickly: burying the dead, opening the door for a stranger, and fixing your daughter's wedding.
There's no handsome woman on the wedding day, except the bride.
The woman cries before the wedding and the man after.
The wedding lasts for two or three days, but the trouble stays longer.
At a wedding a bride eats the least.
It will heal well before your wedding.
Will heal before wedding.
At her wedding, the bride eats the least.
The Jew ruins himself with passovers, the Moor with wedding feasts, and the Christian with lawsuits.
Girl, do not exult in thy wedding dress; see how much trouble lurks behind it.
The most dangerous food is wedding cake.
It is difficult to repay the gifts you get at a wedding or a funeral.
Nobility follows the man's line at a wedding.
He who dances at the wedding, weeps at the funeral.
One for sorrow; two for mirth; three for a wedding; four for a birth.
If they say there is a wedding in the sky, women would try to put up a ladder.
He who dances well goes from wedding to wedding.
How shall the enemy of the bride speak well of the wedding?
One wedding brings another.
The wedding feast is not made with mushrooms only.
The pearls of a bride on her wedding day are the tears that will be shed later.
Were you at the wedding, Molly? No, mother, but the bride was very fine.
Sauna without birch switch is like a wedding without bride.
A wedding is like a funeral, but with musicians.
A piss without a fart is a wedding without a violin.
If that man went to a wedding, he'd stay for the christening (To be said of someone who outstays their welcome).
Who would be mean to his darling, especially before the wedding?
It may not pay to weigh everyone in the same scales.
Wisdom and serenity should not unduly weigh down a person.
Rare is the person who can weigh the faults of another without putting his thumb on the scale.
Rather weigh the will of the speaker, than the worth of the words.
A puff of wind and popular praise weigh the same.
Weigh justly and sell dearly.
First weigh, then venture.
The reasons of the poor weigh not.
Give ear and weigh the matter well.
Who wants to win a gander, you need to weigh Drake.
Without war there can be no peace.
War ends nothing.
You cannot wage war without the sound of gunpowder.
All is fair in love and war.
War is to a man what bed is to a woman.
Who buys land buys war.
War begun, hell unchained.
Laws are silent in time of war.
Eternal peace lasts only until the next war.
The merciful do not engage in war, and the righteous do not engage in finances.
It is easier to wage war with wise enemies than be at peace with foolish friends.
Gossiping about the enemy can result in a war.
Make love, not war.
If you want peace, prepare for war.
He that makes a good war, makes a good peace.
All weapons of war cannot arm fear.
When war begins, then hell opens.
There is no reason for war that reasonable men can't settle.
Yielding stays war.
To a man prepared for war, peace is assured.
After the war, aid.
In war, hunting, and love, for one pleasure a hundred pains.
During war, weapons aren't cleaned.
If we let people see that kind of thing, there would never again be any war.
He who has land has war.
A true friend, is one that will take a bullet for you in the war.
In the war of love who flies conquers.
The eagle does not war against frogs.
Many heroes appear after the war.
Those who do not go to war roar like lions.
In war, lies are as abundant as dirt.
In peace be faithful; in war be valiant.
The drums of war are the drums of hunger.
For some people war is war, for others - dear mother.
Make peace with people; wage war with your sins.
Make peace with man and war with your sins.
Advise no one to go to war or to marry.
All is fair in love and war.
The most useful holy war is the one fought against your own passions.
Marriage is the only war in which you sleep with the enemy.
In war, there is nothing more honorable than victory.
He who provokes a war must be sure that he knows how to fight.
If you wish for peace, be ready for war.
The laziness of youths is worse than war.
War has no eyes.
Let him who does not know what war is go to war.
The war horses are born on the frontiers.
You cannot exchange peace for war.
An endless war shames even a hero.
Don't beat the drums of war unless you're ready to fight.
If you're not at the war front its easy to assume we didn't put up a good fight.
Nobody wages war with ghosts.
Truth is the first victim of war.
All war follow a demonstrate failure of difficulty diplomacy.
Advise none to marry or go to war.
Sex is like war, both are exciting but neither informative.
Make love not war.
If you want peace, you must prepare for war.
War is a disaster for winner and loser alike.
More than one war has been caused by a single word.
A lion on me and an ostritch in war.
In war it is best to tie your horse to a strange manger.
Peace feeds, war wastes; peace breeds, war consumes.
War is pleasant to those who have not tried it.
Councils of war never fight.
Hussars pray for war, and the doctor for fever.
All's fair in love and war.
Better an unjust peace than a just war.
To call war the soil of courage and virtue is like calling debauchery the soil of love.
No war is more bitter than the war of friends, but it does not last long.
War is sweet to him who does not go to it.
Peace with a cudgel in hand is war.
An iron peace is better than a golden war.
A dead man does not make war.
War makes robbers, and peace hangs them.
Many return from the war who cannot give an account of the battle.
He who sweats more in peace, bleeds less in war.
In war time there is pay for every horse.
He that eats while he lasts, will be the war while he die.
The scholar may war the master.
He that keeps not his arms in time of peace will have none in time of war.
The war is lost for too much advice.
Owning land is like fighting a war.
In war, hunting, and love you suffer a thousand pains for one pleasure.
No war has been fought by men carrying a calabash of ‘njohi' but of ‘ucuru'.
The war that has no unity will make no prey.
If one soldier knew what the other thinks, there would be no war.
Money is the sinew of war.
Weeds never perish.
Go often to the house of thy friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path.
Woo the widow whilst she is in weeds.
Weeds never die.
A man of words and not deeds, Is like a garden full of weeds.
Criticizing another's garden doesn't keep the weeds out of your own.
The frost hurts not weeds.
A lot of weeds will grow in a stagnant pond.
Heaps of good cotton stocks get chopped up from association with the weeds.
A mans greatest shortcoming is that he neglects his own field and weeds that of others.
The corn is not choked by the weeds but by the negligence of the farmer.
Don't water your friend's garden when yours is full of weeds.
A good garden always has weeds.
No garden without its weeds.
No garden without its weeds.
For the sake of the flowers, the weeds are watered.
Weeds want no sowing.
If you let the weeds grow for a year you will need seven to clear them.
Your own wealth is flowers and wine; the other man's is but weeds.
One who wants to keep their yard tidy does not reserve a plot for the weeds.
Ill weeds grow apace.
On fat land grow foulest weeds.
It is a lazy man who says "it is only because I have no time that my farm is overgrown with weeds".
The evil weed produces the largest number of weeds.
He who tends to his own garden does not see the weeds of his neighbours.
Ill weeds grow apace.
Ill weeds grows apace.
No garden without its weeds.
Ill weeds grow apace.
A man o' words, and no o' deeds, is like a garden fu' o' weeds.
Ill weeds grow apace.
Every one can navigate in fine weather.
Bad birds seldom bring good weather.
In dark weather the devil is in the air.
For the bad weather, a cheerful face.
Put no faith in a drunkard's prophecy, another man's dog, or the weather at any season.
A woman's heart and spring weather.
If you wait, there will come nectar - like fair weather.
If you wait long enough, it will be good weather.
Women are as fickle as April weather.
The good seaman is known in bad weather.
After bad weather comes fine weather.
The weather vane will not work without wind.
All weather is passing.
Humid weather, smelly air.
The weather worsens on saint bartholomew's day.
There are seven different kind of weather in one autumn night.
When the cat hops around, bad weather is on the way.
After rain comes fair weather.
After a storm fair weather, after sorrow joy.
Stormy weather cannot stay all the time, the red sun will come out, too.
After a storm comes fair weather, after sorrow comes joy.
Whim rules the child, and weather the field, each is open to chance.
There is no such thing as bad weather, only bad clothing.
Calm weather in June, sets the corn in tune.
In fair weather prepare for foul.
A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair.
It is easy to sit at the helm in fine weather.
April weather, woman's love, rose-leaves, dice, and card-luck, change every moment.
After clouds comes clear weather.
make your hay before the fine weather leaves you.
Weather, husbands, and sons come as you take them.
There is no bad weather only bad clothing.
The child's bottom and April weather arre not to be trusted.
When falkland hill puts on his cap, the howe o' fife will get a drap, and when the bishop draws his cowl, look out for wind and weather fowl.
Red sea: good morning weather. Red mountains: water and wind.
May God save us from good weather in January.
Don't worry about the weather or the government.
A low fog leaves good weather.
An evening rainbow means good weather in the morning, a rainbow in the morning fills wells and fountains.
In fair weather, in calm waters and in peaceful travel, even a coachman knows how to sail.
As the weather goes, so goes the patient.
A red sky means either water or wind; if it doesn't rain, it will be fair weather.
When there is killing weather, the dogs grow fat, when there is.
Weather, wind, women, and fortune change like the moon.
When God pleases, it rains in fair weather.
Sorrow and ill weather come unsent for.
There's no bad weather, there are bad clothes.
Everyone talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
A bird does not change its feathers because the weather is bad.
Thatch your roof before rainy weather.
While it is fine weather, mend your sail.
After black clouds, clear weather.
Candlemas, Candlemas, whether windy or rainy, winter has ended. And if the weather is good, winter will last another thirty days.
After the rain, fine weather.
Fie upon a cloak in fair weather.
In fair weather prepare foul.
The weeping bride makes a laughing wife.
What is marriage, mother? Daughter, it is spinning, bearing children, and weeping.
A beautiful woman smiling, bespeaks a purse weeping.
What is loaned goes away smiling but returns weeping.
Believe not a swearing man and a weeping woman.
With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping.
There is weeping when separated, there is quarreling when together.
It is one life, whether we spend it in laughing or in weeping.
With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping.
Learn weeping and thou shalt gain laughing.
Beware of laughing hosts and weeping priests.
We come into this world crying while all around us are smiling. May we so live that we go out of this world smiling while everybody around us is weeping.
What is marriage, mother? "Child, it is spinning, having children, making money, and weeping.
Learn weeping, and you shall gain laughing.
Weeping makes the heart grow lighter.
Everything ends in weeping.
Laughter can be heard further than weeping.
Weeping will follow a long delight, fart from laughing long.
If you are travelling towards the East, you will inevitably move away from the West.
A sheep's wool sky means wind's to follow, either a Levant or a West wind or a Sirocco.
East or west, home is best.
Do not tear down the east wall to repair the west wall.
East or west, home is best.
Too far east is west.
East West, home best.
East, west, home's best.
Travel east or travel west, a man's own house is still the best.
Go West, young man, go West! (John Soule)
The north wind is a satisfying wind; the south wind is harmful to man. The east wind is a rain-bearing wind; the west wind is greater than those who live there. The east wind is a wind of prosperity, the friend of Naram-Suen.
Too far East is West.
East or west, home is best.
Only the pallbearers know the weight of the dead.
The weight of the burden is known only by he who caries it.
On which soil we stand on, that is where we carry the weight of the sky.
Envy is a weight not placed by its bearer.
Poor men's words have little weight.
Wha costs nutting gib good weight.
The arguments of the strongest have always the most weight.
Collaboration, sharing of burden irrespective of the weight.
There is no one who became rich because he broke a holiday, and no one who gained weight because he broke a fast.
Good weight and measure, are heaven's treasure.
None knows the weight of another's burden.
God gives his anger by weight, but his pity without measure.
There is no elephant that complains about the weight of its trunk. No elephant is burdened by the weight of its tusks.
The weight of years is the heaviest load.
The scales tip where the weight is.
The woman who gives birth to a child is like the banana tree that breaks under the weight of its fruit.
Eat bread that's light, and cheese by weight.
The reserve doesn't weight your pocket.
Women, melons, and cheese are bought by the weight.
He is worth his weight in gold. (16th century)
Can't carry the weight of his two ears.
Good weight and measure, are heaven's treasure.
God gives the wheat, He doesn't bake the bread.
Without sowing a single wheat you would not harvest thousand ones.
A good bark year makes a good wheat year.
If you borrow some chaff from the rich man you have to repay him with wheat.
He that will have a cake out of the wheat must tarry the grinding.
He knows how many grains to a bushel of wheat.
No wheat without chaff.
A hungry hen sees herself in a wheat silo.
The zawan of your own country is better than the wheat of strangers.
A hungry man is glad to get boiled wheat.
A blind crow may sometimes find a grain of wheat.
Even a blind dove finds a grain of wheat at times.
If there's thunder at capu di staghju, leave the wheat outside.
For sulphur, wheat, wine, and wool, come to the towns of Sicily.
Not all the spikes of wheat go on the wheat pile.
Empty stalks from the Sirocco and full spikes of wheat with the North Wind.
Don't spare expense on the wheat and the flax.
Who sows wheat with the devil will get its chaff.
There is no wheat without chaff.
Don't say "wheat" until it's in the bag and well tied up.
If your vision is for a year plant wheat, if you vision is for a decade plant trees, and if your vision is for a lifetime plant people.
If summer had a mother, she would weep at summer's passing.
The one who loves you will also make you weep.
As long as the clouds dolt weep, the pasture cannot laugh.
When a girl is born all four walls weep.
A man may hap to bring home with him what makes him weep.
Widows weep but they look for another husband.
Only men laugh, only men weep, only men dance.
Water teaches us to weep, wine teaches us to sing.
One never wept but another laughed.
To sing before breakfast is to weep before supper.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
Those who love you will make you weep; those who hate you will make you laugh.
At someone's funeral we weep for our own mothers and fathers.
Laugh at the rice and you will weep for the lentil.
You may forget with whom you laughed, but you will never forget with whom you wept.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone.
It is as much intemperance to weep too much, as to laugh too much.
I wept when I was born, and every day shows why.
Among those who stand, do not sit; among those who sit, do not stand. Among those who laugh, do not weep; among those who weep, do not laugh.
Be careful not to make a woman weep.
Better children weep than old men.
Don't weep over spilled milk.
When a son gives to his father, they both weep.
If you weep for all the sorrows in this world, in the end you will have no eyes.
When I was born I wept, and every day brings a reason why.
It is better to weep with wise men than to laugh with fools.
I wept when I was born and every day explains why.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
Seek counsel of him who makes you weep, and not of him who makes you laugh.
When a son gives to his father, they both weep.
Listening to good advice is the way to wealth.
A new broom sweeps in a new way.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Love is blind, so you have to feel your way.
Water always finds a way out.
A bird that allows itself to be caught will find a way of escaping.
Where there's a will there's a way.
To pick up in a clumsy way is stealing, to steal in a skillful way is to pick up.
‘i see,' said the blind man when he was directed on his way.
If there is a way into the wood there is also a way out of it.
Often the best way of giving oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has.
The young magpie that pulls feathers out of his mother thinks that he is showing gratitude in that way.
The church is near, but the way is icy. The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully.
He that has a tongue in his head may find his way anywhere.
It is no disgrace to move out of the way of the elephant.
Each has his own way of moving.
The mule wasn't born wild, the stick made her that way.
You judge the way you live.
What comes this way, goes this way.
Whoever lets himself be led by the heart will never lose his way.
Your eye is the only way you can judge things.
People are like eels in the water, they wander this way and that.
Though each path is different, there is only one way.
The empty gives the way to the full.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets along the way.
The king lives way up where the stench of the poor cannot reach him.
Foam will always find its way to the shore.
To get lost is to learn the way.
The way of a liar is short.
Kindness will never be wasted in any way.
Old horses don't forget the way.
Since the beggar would come any way, it's best to invite him first.
Insanity is doing the same thing in the same way and expecting a different outcome.
The poor ones give their alms in a humble way, the rich man throws them down with contempt.
There is a way from heart to heart.
I have never seen anyone go astray who followed along the right way.
A fool and water will go the way they are diverted.
A man who pays respect to the great paves the way for his own greatness.
People should not talk while they are eating or pepper may go down the wrong way.
If your husband has many wives, the only sure way for him into you're the bedroom is through a delicious meal.
The best way to eat the elephant standing in your path is to cut it up into little pieces.
The way to avoid great faults is to b aware of little ones.
If you look back, you'll soon be going that way.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
Better to ask the way than to go astray.
He that keeps out of harm's way will gather goodly riches.
He who stops half way is only half in error.
The furthest way about is the nearest way home.
The Russian knows the way, yet he asks for directions.
As you slide down the banister of life, may the splinters never point the wrong way.
The shortcut to food but the long way to work.
Don't be breaking your shin on a stool that's not in your way.
If you don't know the way, walk slowly.
A tree falls the way it leans.
The way a house is decorated will tell much about its owner.
Only a heart can find the way to another heart.
There are many ways to leave this world but only one way to come into it.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth.
There is no use in saying, I will not go such a way, nor drink of such a water.
From saying to doing is a long way.
As soon as a new law is made, a way around it is devised.
Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head.
As one makes his bed, that way he shall lie down.
The way one eats is the way one works.
Many will show you the way once your cart has overturned.
He who does not lose his way by night will not lose his way by day.
The way you got married is not the way you'll get divorced.
Poor thanks is the way of the world.
On the way out, the road is rough; returning, it is smooth.
A wilful man must have his way.
If you yearry debil a come, clear de way.
Do not choose your wife on your way to the church.
If you are going a long way, go slowly.
If you get lost in an icelandic forest, simply stand up and you will find your way.
Everyone thinks of his own gain, and plays in this way to deceive his companion.
Love will find a way. Indifference will find an excuse.
Love will find a way.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
A tree falls the way it leans.
The forest will answer you in the way you call to it.
Money talks all the way to heaven's door.
He who asks won't lose his way.
Death is nature's way of telling you to slow down.
He that will cheat at play, will cheat you any way.
Cream doesn't rise to the top, it works its way up.
He means well, but has a bad way of showing it.
The clock ticks nowhere else the way it does at home.
When you are rich you suffer in a more comfortable way.
Good brotherhood is the best wealth.
With wealth one wins a woman.
A man's wealth may be superior to him.
Wealth can give legs to the cripple, beauty to the ugly, and sympathy to tears.
Credit is better than wealth.
There are three uncertainties: woman, wind, and wealth.
The wise man's wealth lies in good deeds that follow ever after him.
A clear conscience is more valuable than wealth.
Command your wealth, else that will command you.
If you marry a monkey for his wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains as is.
Wealth can come through your creator's good-will.
Rather a piece of bread with a happy heart than wealth with grief.
Peace wins over wealth.
Do not boast about your wealth if you are a father.
Wealth is both an enemy and a friend.
Trusting in wealth is like looking for feathers on turtles.
You have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you.
A por man with his child a rich man with his wealth.
The gods just laugh when men pray to them for wealth.
If youthful pride were wealth, then every man would have had it in his lifetime.
The poor can only guess at what wealth is; the rich don't know what poverty means.
Wealth belongs to the person who enjoys it and not to the one who keeps it.
Better wit than wealth.
If you have much, give of your wealth; if you have little, give of your heart.
When someone's wealth improves, all of a sudden their house's columns appear to be crooked.
Children are a poor man's wealth.
When wealth is lost, nothing is lost; when health is lost, something is lost; when character is lost, all is lost!
Women and wine, game and deceit, Make the wealth small and the wants great.
There is misfortune only where there is wealth.
Sweet is the voice of the man who has wealth.
A shamefaced man seldom acquires wealth.
Many a pupil has gained more wealth than his master.
Men make wealth, and women preserve it.
Of the wealth of the world each has as much as they take.
Wealth is not his who makes it, but his who enjoys it.
To have no enemies is equivalent to wealth.
Concern is the beginning of wealth.
Small gains bring great wealth.
Great wealth, great care.
Bear wealth, poverty will bear itself.
He who gives little gives from his heart; he who gives much gives from his wealth.
Nobility without wealth is more worthless than the seaweed which the tide has left.
Virtue is better than wealth.
Poverty does not destroy virtue nor wealth bestow it.
Let him speak soft words and offer wealth who longs for a woman's love.
A good wife and health are a man's best wealth.
Wealth makes many friends.
Life has always been a mixture of joy and pain, wealth and poverty.
May your charity increase as much as your wealth.
Blessings are better than wealth.
Wealth, if you use it, comes to an end; learning, if you use it, increases.
Sorrow is the seed of wealth.
Wealth gets in the way of wisdom.
Wealth is but dung, useful only when spread about.
Covet wealth, and want it; don't, and luck will grant it.
One courts misfortune by flaunting wealth.
If you share a man's wealth, try to lessen his misfortune.
Unjustly obtained wealth is as snow sprinkled with hot water.
Great wealth is a gift from heaven; moderate wealth results from frugality.
Your brother's pocket cannot keep your wealth.
Where there is no wealth there is no poverty.
A man's wealth may be superior to him.
Knowledge is better than wealth, you have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you.
Poverty without debt is real wealth.
Ability is the poor man's wealth.
Wealth consists not of having great possessions but of having few wants.
Sell not virtue to purchase wealth.
Men get wealth and women keep it.
Health is better than wealth.
Don't pride over your wealth or beauty, one will be gone in a night and the other with a fever.
Wealth comes like a turtle and goes away like a gazelle.
The greatest wealth is contentment with a little.
Your own wealth is flowers and wine; the other man's is but weeds.
Wealth conquered Rome after Rome had conquered the world.
Many pupils have gained more wealth than their masters.
Poverty runs after the poor, wealth after the rich.
The supreme treasure is knowledge, the middle treasure is children, and the lowest treasure is material wealth.
Wealth gars wit waver.
Bear wealth weel, poortith will bear itsel.
A fool dreams of wealth, a wise man, of happiness.
The rich man's wealth tires the poor man's jaw.
Any wealth that takes only a market week to acquire is sure to contain in it things for which the gods will surely come to make claims.
The bottom of wealth is sometimes a dirty thing to behold.
Knowledge is wealth that can't be stolen.
Timely rain cheers my soul; water and sun during seeding, inspires hope; the rains of April and May are late at night; then the good mornings, will be the wealth of the houses.
Having health without wealth is being half sick.
When you have brains to go along with your wealth you can call yourself happy and content.
Nobility is less esteemed when it lacks wealth.
The misfortune that comes into town does not wear a turban.
The rich man may wear old clothes.
Who does not wish to be like the wolf let him not wear its skin.
A man with trousers that are too short should wear long suspenders.
All are not cooks who wear long knives.
Water can wear away even the hardest rock.
May your clothes rip and wear out, but may you live on in good health and fulfillment.
It is better to wear mended clothes than being without clothes or bare.
The best horse can't wear two saddles.
Wear no sword at kinsman's board.
If a man be great, even his dog will wear a proud look.
If it were not for eating, the back might wear gold.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
If the cap fits, wear it.
Better wear out shoes than sheets.
Kind words don't wear out the tongue.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
Irishwomen have a dispensation from the pope to wear the thick ends of their legs downwards.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
The devil does not always wear boots - he sometimes comes barefoot.
They are not all men who wear trousers.
Black souls wear white shirts.
An ape's an ape, though he wear a gold ring.
Habit is a shirt that we wear till death.
God will listen to you whatever cloak you wear.
Unaccustomed to wear them, he displays the breeches he has on to every one he meets.
Try this bracelet: if it fits you wear it; but if it hurts you, throw it away no matter how shiny.
You are the subject of he whose handcuffs you wear.
Wide will wear, but tight will tear.
It is because of man we wear swords.
When a man is wealthy he may wear an old cloth.
The cheapest way to improve your looks is to wear a smile.
The one who wrestles with a big man will soon wear himself out.
Death is like a dress that, at some point or another, everyone has to wear.
Though the fox wear silk, he is still a fox.
Cats that wear gloves catch no mice.
If the cap fits, wear it.
Old shoes wear best.
Rather than run into debt, wear your old coat.
Ever since we wear clothes, we know not each other.
Everybody must wear out one pair of fool's shoes, if he wear no more.
Where all adulterers to wear grey coats, the cloth would be dear.
Be the horse good or bad always wear your spurs.
He who goes not into battle cannot wear a crown.
If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings.
Better to wear out than rust out.
Give a thing and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring.
He that would be healthy must wear his winter clothes in summer.
Renounce the devil, and thou shalt wear a shabby coat.
You will wear the ivy wreath, the victor's meed.
Why wear out your great coat in summer?
Wear not boots too big for your feet.
Wear not out your welcome.
If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings.
If the cap fits, wear it.
Use it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without.
If the cap fits wear it.
If you want to fight fire, you don't wear a skirt made of dry grass.
When a man is wealthy, he may wear an old cloth.
Though the fox wear silk, he is still a fox.
Use it up, wear it out, make do with, or do without.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
Give a thing, and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring.
No man ever wore a scarf as warm as his daughter's arm around his neck.
Who lies with dogs rises with fleas.
Whoever the cap fits takes it. • Let him whom the cap suits wear it.
He should wear iron shone, that bides his neighbours deed.
If the cap fits wear it.
The man from Laihia takes his mother-in-law also to the honeymoon, so the bride would not wear out.
To make the cart go you must grease the wheels.
You must grease the wheels if you would have the car run.
Grease to the wheels.
The wheel of karma always repeats itself. Just like wheels of a cart.
Badly oiled wheels will squeak.
Wisdom and virtue are like the two wheels of a cart.
When fortune's chariot rolls easily, envy and shame cling to the wheels.
Crazy wheels run longest.
I'll put a spoke among your wheels.
Come seldom, come welcome.
A gift, though small, is welcome.
Who comes seldom, is welcome.
He is as welcome as the first day in Lent.
Counsel is as welcome to him as a shoulder of mutton to a sick horse.
Advice is a stranger; if he's welcome he stays for the night; if not, he leaves the same day.
Welcome is the best dish.
New comers are always welcome.
Whore or thief young or old, welcome so you've got the gold.
Help is always welcome, except at the table.
A welcome is a debtor's face.
Constant company wears out its welcome.
Don't outstay your welcome like a neighbor's goat.
Even the most welcome guest is more than enough for three days.
He that hears much and speaks not at all Shall be welcome both in bower and hall.”.
Welcome an opportunity as it comes.
If a man returns from a long journey and no one says welcome back to him he feels like one who has not arrived.
When the fruit fails, welcome haws.
Welcome, evil, if thou comest alone.
The worse the passage the more welcome the port.
Small cheer and great welcome make a great feast.
Sound advice had better be welcome.
Welcome is the best cheer.
The fire is welcome within, when icicles hang without.
When all fruit fails, welcome haws.
He who brings, is welcome.
New comes welcome.
Better for a man to have even a dog welcome him than a dog bark at him.
Welcome is the best cheer.
They are welcome that brings.
A small red snuff-box is a welcome.
A constant guest is never welcome.
Welcome, misfortune, if you come alone.
A constant guest is never welcome.
Harsh is the voice which would dismiss us, but sweet is the sound of welcome.
Now I have got a ewe and a lamb, Every one cries, "Welcome, Peter."
Wear not out your welcome.
Welcome to my garden.
Welcome Vice, if it comest alone.
Welcome is the best dish on the table.
A constant guest is never welcome.
If that man went to a wedding, he'd stay for the christening (To be said of someone who outstays their welcome).
Welcome evil if thou comest alone.
That person is welcome who brings presents.
Whiskey when you're sick makes you well; whiskey makes you sick when you're well.
Talk is cheap but it takes money to buy whiskey.
Whiskey on beer, never fear. Beer on whiskey, mighty risky.
What butter or whiskey will not cure is incurable.
There is more friendship in a half pint of whiskey than in a churn of buttermilk.
What butter and whiskey won't cure, there is no cure for.
If a sauna, whiskey and tar do not help, the disease is fatal.
What butter and whiskey will not cure there's no cure for.
Ninety percent I'll spend on good times, women and Irish Whiskey. The other ten percent I'll probably waste. – Tug McGraw
No dealing with a revengeful man.
It isn't the whistle that pulls the train.
If you can't distinguish how to whistle a festival alarm from a warning alarm, then better not alarm and let s/he who knows the difference to do the alarming.
The dog that minds not your whistle is good for nothing.
It isn't the whistle that pulls the train.
You cannot drink and whistle at the same time.
A sow may whistle, though it has an ill mouth for it.
One cannot drink and whistle at the same time.
He who is sitting in the reeds, makes a whistle of his choice.
What the old ones sing, the young ones whistle.
The young ones dance as the old ones whistle.
If you can't distinguish how to whistle a festival alarm from a warning alarm.
The dog that minds not your whistle is good for nothing.
Pigs may whistle, but they hae an ill mouth for't.
Before we went to churches and bars - now we go to clubs and cinemas.
The horse went into the river.
The one who went to La Villa, lost his/her chair.
A bull went to impregnate a cow, and he came back a fetus.
He hit me, started to cry, and went straight to the judge to sue me.
A good heart never went to hell.
A fool went to fish, but lost his fishing-basket.
"bad company,” said the thief, as he went to the gallows between the hangman and a monk.
Went to get wool, but returned bald.
Last night I made a thousand plans, but this morning I went my old way.
When the hunter returns and is holding mushrooms, don't ask him about how his hunt went.
The one who went to the in-laws got trapped in a thorn tree.
Candour once went further boldly and in smiles, but it crept home in tatters and tears.
It's better to tell your money where to go than to ask where it went.
If fools went not to market bad wares would not be sold.
The crow went traveling abroad and came back just as black.
Went to Haj while pilgrims are coming back.
When the lords come out of the council-house, they are wiser than when they went in.
Pride went out on horseback, and returned on foot.
It went into smoke.
If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold.
Went in one ear and out the other.
Happy is the man whose father went to the devil.
The child went with washing water.
They called him mad and he went mad completely.
We went as fools and came back as arch-fools.
He beat me and cried, and went before me to complain.
If that man went to a wedding, he'd stay for the christening (To be said of someone who outstays their welcome).
He never did a good day's work who went grumblingly about it.
(He/She) went looking for wool and came back shorn.
The deceived sheep that went for wool and came back shorn.
Whatever your uncle gives you, take.
Whatever you eat will rot, whatever you give will blossom into a rose.
A person consists of his faith. Whatever is his faith, even so is he.
Whatever is in the heart will come up to the tongue.
Whatever I disliked, happened to me.
Whatever you do, think about it seven times.
He who knows not shame does whatever he likes.
The person who is not ashamed does whatever he wants.
Since we didn't say anything, he thought he could do whatever he wanted to.
Whatever man had done, man may do.
If you're beautiful, whatever you do is fine.
Whatever is to be a nettle, burns early.
Whatever kind of word thou speakest, the like shalt thou bear.
Whatever you sow, you reap.
Whatever the wind brings he takes away with him.
Whatever the tree, so is the fruit.
Money isn't everything, but it's way ahead of whatever is in second place.
God will listen to you whatever cloak you wear.
At whatever age a child gets a problem, at the same age she has to shoulder the responsibility.
Whatever the type of firewood found in a place, it is usually good enough for the people of that place to cook with.
Whatever has bloomed, has bloomed from the very bud.
Whatever you teach, be brief; what is quickly said the mind readily receives and faithfully retains, while everything superfluous runs over as from a full container. Who knows much says least.
Whatever nourished the goat until it grew a beard will continue to sustain him.
Never lose heart because whatever is hot must in the end turn cold.
Whatever nature does least, man does most.
Whatever man has done, man may do.
Eat whatever thou likest, but dress as others do.
When a man is not liked, whatever he doth is amiss.
A dog is a dog whatever his colour.
Whatever is given to the poor, is laid out of the reach of fortune.
Whatever you have to do, do it quickly.
Whatever the thoughts of the dervish, so are his formulas.
Whatever way you take there is a league of bad road.
Whatever is said in Latin sounds profound.
Whatever you undertake let it be proportioned to your powers.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end. (Strauss, 1994 p. 600)
Whatever I say, I will say it twice, and then I will repeat it again.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
Learning, jewels, virtues, good habits, polite manners, sweet speech, artistry accept them from whatever source offers.
The mirror will show you whatever you show it.
Whatever you sow, that's what you'll reap.
Whatever the man in authority said, it was not pleasant.
Whatever the man in authority said, it was not right.
Whatever happens, all happens as it should.
Whatever advice you give, be short.
You cannot stop a whore, not even with a hundred horses.
Whore or thief young or old, welcome so you've got the gold.
A whore in spring, a nun in autumn.
At borrowing cousin german, at repaying son of a whore.
As demure as an old whore at a christening.
He that spends his geir on a whore, hes both shame and skaith.
Once a whore, always a whore.
It is a poor family that hath neither a whore nor a thief in it.
Once a whore, always a whore.
A wheel that turns gathers no rust.
Fortune's wheel is ever turning.
‘what a dust we kick up,' as the fly said to the cart wheel.
No stopping the force of a going wheel by hand.
Every land to its own custom, every wheel its own spindle.
The world is a wheel and men are the fellowes, and the devil prowling around spins.
The wheel of karma always repeats itself. Just like wheels of a cart.
Life is like a wheel, sometimes at the top, sometimes at the bottom.
The worst wheel makes most noise.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
If you don't believe in cooperation, watch what happens to a wagon when one wheel comes off.
It's the squeaky wheel that gets the grease.
The worst wheel creaks most.
Fortune goes like a wheel.
As the spokes of a wheel are attached to the hub, so all things are attached to life.
The worst wheel creaks most.
The wheel turns better if greased.
The worst wheel of a cart creaks most.
The world is a wheel, there are some at the top and some who go to the bottom.
The wheel turns round.
The worse the wheel, the more it creaks.
The squeaking wheel gets the grease.
The highest spoke in fortune's wheel may soon turn lowest.
You are more shifting than a potter's wheel.
As the spokes of a wheel are attached to the hub, so all things are attached to life.
He's like the smith's dog - so wheel used to the sparks that he'll no burn.
A fool sees not the same tree that a wise man sees. (William Blake)
God's a good man. (William Shakespeare)
Hell is empty and all the devils are here. (William Shakespeare)
What is honour? a word. What is that word, honour? Air. (William Shakespeare)
I know my price. (William Shakespeare)
Time himself is bald. (William Shakespeare)
The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom. (William Blake)
William Hazlitt, in Characteristics, in the manner of Rochefoucauld's Maxims.
A horseǃ a horseǃ My kingdom for a horseǃ (William Shakespeare)
The rest is silence. (William Shakespeare, Hamlet)
Let every vat stand upon its own bottom. (William Bullein)
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
When there's fire, dry and wet burn together.
Coffee has two virtues, it's wet and it's warm.
Comes in at the end with a wet sail.
How beautiful to watch the rain and not get wet.
A canoe does not know who is king. When it turns over, everyone gets wet.
If you are going to bathe, get thoroughly wet.
Work the clay while it is still wet.
My skirt with tears is always wet: I have forgotten to forget.
The stone that everybody spits upon will be wet at the last.
The wet branch burns better than the dry stone.
The devil likes to souse what is already wet.
The cat would eat fish, but would not wet her feet.
When you put your nose into the water your cheeks get wet as well.
If you are already wet, you won't care about the rain.
If you rise too early, the dew will wet you.
Who handles water is bound to get wet.
A good surfer will not get wet.
When your neighbor shaves, you start to wet your cheeks.
People want to avoid the dew before they become wet.
All cats love fish but fear to wet their paws.
It never rains on your neighbors without you getting your feet wet.
If you're going home, you don't get wet.
There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry.
When all is wet to the skin, hold out yet.
Better make a short circuit than to wet your hose.
It usually rains where it's already wet.
The cat loves fish, but is loth to wet her feet.
Any fool carries an umbrella on a wet day, but the wise man carries it every day.
Mad as a wet hen.
The cat loves fish, but is loth to wet her feet.
Many caress the child for the sake of the wet nurse.
Ye breed of the cat, ye would fain have fish, but ye have na will to wet your feet.
Who wants to eat snails, will have to get his feet wet.
Who pounds the water in the mortar, will get wet with the drops and will end up tired.
Wet your finger in tar and soon it is all over you.
Every poor man has a dry throat and wet boots.
Trouble will rain on those who are already wet.
Sow dry and set wet.
It rains sorrow on him who is already wet.
Whoever sleeps with children wakes up all wet.
He's a little wet behind the ears.
The buffalo's shit is dry on top when inside its wet.
Не who would catch fish must not mind getting wet.
A good surfer will not get wet. A bad one breaks his board.
One does not cross a river without getting wet.
Fain would the cat fish eat, But she is loth to wet her feet.
The tongue of men is the whip of God.
Whip the saddle and give the mule something to think about it.
A whip even to a galloping horse.
The horse that draws best is the most whipped.
You cannot damage a wrecked whip.
Love is better than a whip.
There is no need to whip docile horses.
Love well whip well.
An old coachman loves the crack of the whip.
Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand.
When a stiff-necked bull stands with its four legs planted firmly and refuses to move, you cannot make it go ahead only by pulling it by the reins and using your whip.
It is easy to drive with your own whip and another's horse.
It goes like cuts of a whip.
The whip cracks at the end.
The whip hits at the legs, not the guilt.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod, and the horse with a whip and spurs.
Reins and a whip make a good horse.
The best horse needs a whip, intelligent men need advice, and the devout man needs a woman.
You do not need a whip to urge on an obedient horse.
They whip the cat, if our mistress does not spin.
He who does not whip the child does not mend the youth.
Let them whip me in the market-place, provided it be not known at home.
The mind is best taught with a sharp whip.
Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand.
A good horse never needs a whip.
Another man's horse and your own whip can do a great deal.
To him who gives you a capon you may spare a leg and a wing.
Don't refuse a wing to the one who gave you the chicken.
I'll come again, said the woman who got caught in wing of the windmill.
You can't fly with one wing.
A bird never flew on one wing.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a crane on the wing.
A bird will not fly with one wing.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a bustard on the wing.
The mother of mischief is no bigger than a midge's wing.
A narrow space looks wide to the narrow minded.
The rabbit that dances on the broken branch of a high tree must look down to see how many mouths are opened wide beneath.
You can't put a wide head on young shoulders.
If one has to jump a stream and knows how wide it is, he will not jump. If he does not know how wide it is, he will jump, and six times out of ten he will make it.
He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life; but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.
The world is wide to everyone.
Love blinds your eyes, marriage opens them wide.
He must gape wide who would gape against an oven.
As you go the way of life you will see a great chasm. Jump. It is not as wide as you think.
The river may is wide, but it can crossed..
He hath need of his wits who wanders wide.
Wide will wear, but tight will tear.
It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house.
A minimal error at the start leads to a wide divergence in the distance.
The net of heaven is large and wide, but it lets nothing through.
The sky is wide enough for two birds to fly without their wings touching.
If you stoop to see your neighbour's anus, then your own anus is wide open for others to see, even more easily and clearly.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
Wide experience makes for deep tolerance.
The difference is wide that the sheets will not decide.
Wide lugs an a short tongue is best.
Wide ears and short tongue are the best.
Mouth and heart are wide apart.
Our examples are like seeds on a windy day, they spread far and wide.
Give monks a wide berth, and as for priests just attend Mass.
The heart is small and embraces the whole wide world.
What is the use of a big wide world when your shoes are too small?
Life may be short, but it can be wide as well.
The solution is under our nose, yet we're searching far and wide for it.
Nobody has ever bet enough on a winning horse.
Buying and selling is but winning and losing.
There are two great pleasures in gambling: that of winning and that of losing.
If winning is not important, then why keep score.
When shepherds quarrel, the wolf has a winning game.
Small winning makes a heavy purse.
Light winning makes a heavy purse.
Your winning is no my tinsel.
Your ancestor's glory should not prevent you from winning your own.
Losing comes of winning money.
Winning isn't everything, it's the only thing.
The widow is just as fiery as the horse that threw her.
What's all the world to a man when his wife is a widow.
A rich widow weeps in one eye and laughs with the other.
A widow, like a widower, is a house without a roof.
After I saw what my mother did, I will never trust a widow.
He that woos a widow must woo her day and night.
Woo the widow whilst she is in weeds.
The soldier's wife is always a widow.
He that marries a widow with four children marries four thieves.
The woman of a man without sorrows is almost a widow.
The wife of a careless man is almost a widow.
Wedded in september, widow or sorrow.
Who weds a widow with three children takes four thieves into his house.
A buxom widow must be married, buried, or cloistered.
He that marries a widow will often have a dead man's head thrown into the dish.
I won't tie up the mule in a horse's place, says the widow.
A girl receives, a widow takes her husband.
A rich widow weeps with one eye and signals with the other.
If you have ploughed with oxen, married a widow and never said a bad word - surely you go to heaven.
Better the second husband of a widow than the first.
Never marry a widow unless her first husband was hanged.
"When the rooster dies must the hen begin to sing", said the widow.
Slander piles itself before the door of a widow.
When one comes to comfort a young widow, he does not mean to perform a good deed.
He who marries a widow also marries her debts.
Wipe your sore eye with your elbow.
A man cannot undo his past. can zebras wipe away their stripes?
If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
Wipe wi' the water and wash wi' the towel.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present; a kiss to greet the future.
Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter.
An elephant has enormous dung -- don't try to defecate like an elephant. Don't try to wipe someone else's ass if yours is unwiped.
Snivelling folks always want to wipe other folks' noses.
Let him who feels he has a dirty nose wipe it.
If a fool has a lot of grease he will wipe it on his beard.
Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter.
If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
If you are a friend of the captain, you can wipe your hands on the sail.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present.
I would not wipe my muddy boots in him.
Wipe your eye with your elbow.
If anyone is not willing to accept your point of view, try to see his point of view.
You must be willing to die in order to live.
To be willing is only half the task.
Where the pupil is willing; the teachers will appear.
Willing is a good man, but able is a better one.
Willing exile is exile nonetheless.
The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Everyone lays a burden on the willing horse.
He who is unable is always willing.
A willing helper comes without asking.
Don't spur a willing horse.
Willing is a good man, but Able is a better one.
Fate leads those who are willing but must push those who are not.
Destiny leads the willing but drags the unwilling.
The fates lead the willing man; an unwilling man they drag.
A willing helper does not wait until he is asked.
Spur not a willing horse.
It is easy to help him, who is willing to be helped.
Spur not a willing horse.
It's easy to take Kati to the dance, if she is also willing.
Nothing is impossible to a willing heart.
When loves is willing, it finds a way.
To be willing is to be able.
Spur not a willing horse.
Nothing is impossible to a willing mind.
All lay loads on a willing horse.
Help him who is willing to work, not him who shrinks from it.
I am willing but unable.
All lay load on the willing horse.
The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Where the heart is willing it will find a thousand ways, but where it is unwilling it will find a thousand excuses.
Never spur a willing horse.
Spur not a willing horse.
When you treat someone like a wild cat, he will steal your chickens.
You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather.
A wild goose never reared a tame gosling.
Where there are no tigers, a wild cat is very self-important.
Wild ducks and tomorrow both come without calling.
The mule wasn't born wild, the stick made her that way.
A wild dog is best eaten when clubbed to death.
Better to be watched by a wild animal than a nosey man.
Twenty years a child; twenty years running wild; twenty years a mature man -- and after that, praying.
Run as hard as a wild beast if you will, but you won't get any reward greater than that destined for you.
One doesn't follow a wild beast into its lair.
One doesn't follow a wild beast into its lair.
A wild goose may be worth a hundred pieces of gold, but you first have to spend three pieces of gold to buy an arrow.
The flowers in your garden don't smell as sweet as those in the wild, but they last much longer.
You've seen many Komo, but you haven't seen the wild beast.
The attacks of a wild beast cannot be averted with only bare hands.
A woman is like a bee treat her well and she will make honey, treat her badly and she will go wild.
If you haven't any sheep you won't know that a fox is a wild animal.
The husbands belong to the wives and hookers are for the wild beast.
In the olive grove, a wise man at the feet and a wild man at the head.
Oregano and wild mint, if one does poorly, the other is worse.
He has drunk the juice of the flower of the wild aloe.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
Once I had escaped the wild bull, the wild cow confronted me.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
A frog living at the bottom of the well thinks that the sky is as small.
Draw water from the new well, but do not spit in the old one.
If you want something done and done well, do it yourself.
No matter how beautiful and well crafted a coffin might look, it will not make anyone wish for death.
Remember to dig the well long before you get thirsty.
When you are thirsty, it is too late to think about digging a well.
The big drum only sounds well from a distance.
There is a dog in the well.
You may well have two legs but you still can't climb two trees at the same time.
In the hotel of decisions the guests sleep well.
Dig your well before you're thirsty.
Do not leave your host's house throwing mud in his well.
Use medicine as well as prayers.
As is well that ends well.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it comes home broken at last.
All's well that ends well.
Flies know well the sweet seller's beard.
Being well dressed does not prevent one from being poor.
Taking water from the same well doesn't make all the wives' gravy taste good.
You may well have caught a bird, but have you a fire to roast it on?
You cannot dance well on only one leg.
The person that learns well also defends himself well.
All happy endings are beginnings as well.
The well fed person doesn't understand the hungry one.
Whiskey when you're sick makes you well; whiskey makes you sick when you're well.
The road to Heaven is well signposted, but it is badly lit at night.
Do well the little things now; so shall great things come to thee by and by asking to be done.
The ass well knows in whose house he brays.
Speak little and well, they will think you somebody.
Spilt salt is never well collected.
No woman is ugly if she is well dressed.
It is only in your coffin that you sleep really well.
It is little use to dig a well after the house has caught fire.
Borrowed garments never fit well.
There is no beard so well shaven but another barber will find something more to shave from it.
The soldier is well paid for doing mischief.
If the patient dies, the doctor has killed him, but if he gets well, the saints have saved him.
Who does all he may never does well.
To him who gives you a pig you may well give a rasher.
The father may well be a horse, but it's most likely that the son will be a mule.
If you want a well, only dig in one place.
When the affected lady is doing well she eats her peas with a pin.
Better wise language than well combed hair.
End well, all well.
'tis well that wicked cows have short horns.
All is well that ends well.
Charity well regulated begins at home.
Communism is a cow of many; well milked and badly fed.
Cow of many - well milked and badly fed.
The wolf is well pleased with the kick of a sheep.
Never let a hyena know how well you can bite.
A man without happiness is either not good or not well.
The deaf does not listen, but invents well.
You can only be honest if you are well fed.
It is not the fire in the fireplace which warms the house, but the couple who get along well.
Chickens can't speak well of their own soup.
Moral people sleep well at night, but the immoral seem to get pleasure from the waking hours much more.
Do not drink from a well and throw a stone into it.
He who eats well is able to face an army.
To have a clear tongue is better than having goods which you can't manage well.
Treat the days well and they will treat you well.
The bucket goes down the well every day - some day it won't come up again.
While the mouse in the walls may look from afar at a cat, he does well not to go squeaking about it.
Who digs the well should not be refused water.
The speaker may well be a fool but the listener is wise.
Speak well of others.
A tea cup on the edge of a well.
If you want a thing done well, do it yourself.
The very thing one likes, one does well.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
Some people want to be praised for the rest of their lives for what they have done well for one day.
Listening well is as powerful as talking well, and is also as essential to true conversation.
A heavy load should be borne together as well as a light load.
One who sits by the well will never go thirsty.
A mad man drops a rock into water well, so that thousand wise men can not take it out.
If you understand the beginning well, the end will not trouble you.
Leave well enough alone.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
If you want a thing well done, do it yourself. (1616)
He that lives well is learned enough.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
Well goes the case when wisdom counsels.
When a snake gets warm on ice, then a German will wish well to a Czech.
He that gapes until he be fed, well may he gape till he be dead.
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
A young foal and an old horse draw not well together.
Things never go so well that someone should have no fear, nor so bad that someone should have no hope.
What you do yourself is well done.
The stick that breaks the window does not kill a dog.
You don't really see the world if you only look through your own window.
When hunger comes through the door, love jumps out the window.
Better to fall from the window than the roof.
It is easy to frighten the bull from the window.
There is more light than can be seen through the window.
There is no woman who sleeps so deeply that the sound of a guitar won't bring her to the window.
As soon as one goes out the window, another comes in the door.
When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
The charitable give out the door and god puts in at the window.
The eyes are the window of the soul.
The air of a window is as the stroke of a cross-bow.
He who peeps at the neighbor's window may chance to lose his eyes.
When misfortune comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
A woman who loves to be at the window is like a bunch of grapes on the wayside.
It is easy to threaten a bull from a window.
The charitable give out at the door, and God puts in at the window.
When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
Better to be shot with a crossbow than rejected by a window slammed shut.
When Want comes in at the door, Love flies out at the window.
When industry goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window.
When hard work goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window.
Many open a door to shut a window.
One must pass through the door or the window.
A hairy man's a geary man, but a hairy wife's a witch.
Witch doctors do not sell their potions to each other.
Rather than an abatement of her viciousness, a witch gives birth to only female children and witchcraft multiplies .
Every woman has something of a witch about her.
The witch is going! the witch is going! but if you are not a witch you don't turn around to look.
The witch kills "he ate and he did not give me”, but she does not kill, "he gave me too little.”.
It is the woman whose child has been eaten by a witch who best knows the evils of witchcraft.
A laughing jackal portends a witch in the rafters.
What God has written, a witch doctor can not erase.
One eye is a better witness than two ears.
One witness one liar; more witnesses, all liars.
He that trusts a faithless friend, has a good witness against him.
The witness of a rat is another rat.
True bravery is without witness.
An evil deed has a witness in the bosom.
Bear witness to facts, not words.
Between two brothers two witness and a notary.
If you can't endure the bad, you won't live to witness the good.
Life without a friend is death without a witness.
As to the juror or the witness, bribe both.
The fox uses his tale as a witness.
When the beer goes in the wits go out.
As mony heads, as mony wits.
Less good than they say for the sons of men is the drinking oft of ale: for the more they drink, the less can they think and keep a watch o'er their wits.
He hath need of his wits who wanders wide.
Let no man glory in the greatness of his mind, but rather keep watch o'er his wits.
You need your wits about you the most when you are dealing with an idiot.
Never get in a battle of wits without ammunition.
Listen to people, but keep your own wits.
For an honest man half his wits are enough; the whole is too little for a knave.
Twa wits are better than ane.
Great wits meet.
As many heads, as many wits.
As many heads as many wits.
Corsairs against corsairs, there is nothing to win but empty barrels.
It is as difficult to win love as it is to pack salt in pine needles.
When in doubt who will win, be neutral.
You always learn a lot more when you lose than when you win.
It's as difficult to win love as to wrap salt in pine needles.
He who would the daughter win, with the mother must begin.
Who the daughter would win, with mamma must begin.
A cart-horse could never win the derby.
A man with a loud laugh makes truth itself seem folly, Truth is great and will win out.
He who quits does not win, he who wins does not quit.
Cowards win no laurels.
To win a dispute is to gain a chicken and lose a cow.
Win or lose, there's always huyperian beetle snuff.
The quick one may not win; the enduring one will.
Thirty-six plans of how to win the battle are not so good as one plan to withdraw from the fight.
Fight only when you can win; move away when you cannot.
Win your lawsuit and lose your money.
Win a cat and lose a cow -- the consequence of litigation.
The cheapest way to win a person is by a smile.
When in doubt, win the trick.
Let them laugh that win.
The more arguments you win, the less friends you will have.
He that would the daughter win Must with the mother first begin.
You can't win them all.You win a few, you lose a few.
You win some, you lose some.
Play alone and you're bound to win.
Be generous to a generous person and you'd win him, be generous to a mean person and he'd rebel on you.
Faint hearts never win fair ladies.
Who would win, must learn to bear.
I will win the horse, or lose the saddle.
The best horse doesn't always win the race.
Ill win, ill warit.
It's insane to oppose when you can neither win nor compromise.
Win a game of your friend, and drink the money on the spot.
Where you lose nothing, you always win something.
Learn from your tears and you will win laughing.
Possessions dwindle: I mourn their loss. But I mourn the loss of time much more, for anyone can save his purse, but none can win back lost time.
If I wrestle with a filthy thing, win or lose, I shall be defiled.
Let them laugh that win.
It is easier to win good luck than to retain it.
Who wants to win a gander, you need to weigh Drake.
Destroying an Empire to win a war is no victory. And ending a battle to save an Empire is no defeat.
When in doubt, win the trick.
I will either win the saddle or lose the horse.
He that would the daughter win must with the mother first begin.
The most important thing is not to win, but to fight well.
An ill win penny will cast down a pound.
Who wants to win a gander, you need to weigh Drake.
Few may play with the devil and win.
A husband should not talk of pretty girls in front of his wife.
He that has a white horse and a fair wife need never want for trouble.
The son of an old man is an orphan, and his wife is a widow.
Better a bad wife than an empty house.
Only take away the wife of a strong man when he is out.
The man with one wife is the boss of all bachelors.
Leave her now and then if you would really love your wife.
Lying can get you a wife, but it won't keep her.
All freight lightens, said the skipper, when he threw his wife overboard.
When the Turk becomes richer he takes another wife.
The wife carries the husband on her face; the husband carries the wife on his clothes.
Pretty wife, old wine -- many friends.
A man with a skinny wife is a deceitful man.
A poor man who takes a rich wife has a ruler, not a wife.
As soon as a man gets new trousers, he thinks about a new wife.
Between husband and wife, one doesn't put the spoon.
Choose a wife to please yourself, not others.
When husband and wife live in harmony, they can dry up the ocean without a bucket.
To 'get out of my house.' or 'what do you want with my wife?' there is no answer.
The idiot who has his eye on your wife is like a blood sucking fly.
If you are wise, look after your house; love your wife without alloy.
Whoever is ashamed to sleep with his wife will never have children.
Don't praise your wife before a year.
Laughing wife, crying purse.
When a neighbor gets divorced everyone thinks of his own wife.
Better the child weeps than your wife.
He whose money increases doesn't feel satisfied with his wife.
You can trust your brother, your father, your mother, but never your wife.
Beat your wife regularly; if you don't know why, she will.
A man without a wife is a man without a house.
A woman is attractive when she is somebody else's wife.
My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
Don't give your son's wife fall-harvest eggplant to eat.
Man and wife are one flesh.
Pick your wife in the kitchen.
It is the wife who knows her husband.
The good wife at her husband's home, the other one is at her parent's home.
When buying a house, check the beams; when choosing a wife; check the mother.
To truly love your wife, leave her alone every once in a while.
He who sacks his wife because she eats a lot will end up marrying a cannibal.
A diamond daughter turns to glass as a wife.
Take a friend for what he does, a wife for what she has, and goods for what they are worth.
There are three faithful friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
A cheerful wife is a joy of life.
A fair wife and a frontier castle breed quarrels.
A man without a wife is but half a man.
The woman who loves her husband corrects his faults; the man that loves his wife exaggerates them.
The weeping bride makes a laughing wife.
A young wife is an old man's post-horse to the grave.
The blacksmith's horse and the cobbler's wife are always the last to have shoes.
The shoemaker's wife and the blacksmith's horse often go unshod.
He who heeds the first word of his wife must listen forever to the second.
The soldier's wife is always a widow.
The lucky fellow loses his wife, the unlucky fellow loses his horse.
Men prefer the wife of another but love their own sons more.
A mill and a wife are always in want of something.
As you would have a daughter so choose a wife.
Every man has a good wife and a bad trade.
For a wife and a horse go to your neighbour.
Only a fool asks, "What do you want with my wife?”.
He is a fool who boasts of four things: that he has good wine, a good horse, a handsome wife, and plenty of money.
It is a good horse that never stumbles, and a good wife that never grumbles.
The thief's wife does not always laugh.
With the first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy.
Do not choose your wife at a dance, but in the field among the harvesters.
It's natural to have some disagreement between husband and wife.
Complain about the house where the husband is the wife.
His whole life he carried his wife on his back.
When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is topsy-turvy.
Show me your wife and I will tell you what kind of a husband she has.
Happy the marriage where the husband is the head and the wife the heart.
Who has got a good wife has found a good thing.
It is better to be without a wife for a minute than without tobacco for an hour.
Do not choose your wife on your way to the church.
The horns of the sister are horns of gold; the horns of the wife are true horns.
Your wife and your wheelbarrow are two things that you should never lend to anyone.
A man without a wife is like a field without a fence.
Rather a man without a cow for the summer than without a wife for christmas night.
A wise husband and a patient wife equal a peaceful home and a happy life.
Every little helps to lighten the freight, said the captain, as he threw his wife overboard.
One God, one wife, but many friends.
Smoke, stench, and a troublesome wife are what drive men from home.
A sad bride makes a glad wife.
Neither reprove nor flatter thy wife, where any one heareth or seeth it.
The wife is twice precious only; when led into the house, and when taken out.
There is nothing better than a rich wife and a generous mother-in-law.
A good wife and a wholesome cabbage soup, what more could you want?
Strike while the iron is hot.
While yearning for excess we lose the necessities.
The immature rice stalk stands erect, while the mature stalk, heavy with grain, bends over.
While the smart man plans to get married, the foolish one ends up with a family.
Don't wake up trouble while it sleeps quietly.
The teeth of the puppy are growing, while the old dog is gnawing bones.
Bake the bread while the oven is hot.
For age and want save while you may, no morning sun lasts a whole day.
Lower your head modestly while passing, and you will harvest bananas.
In the home of the coward they laugh while in the home of the brave they cry.
He's looking for the donkey while sitting on it.
You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather.
A good bird begins chirping while in the egg.
One person can burn water, while another can't even burn oil.
It is easy to see the fly on the other person's nose, while ignoring the horse on your own.
A slave shows his true character, not while he is enslaved but when he becomes a master.
Kill your anger while it is small.
While the blanket is short, learn to bend.
Hypocrites kick with their hind feet while licking with their tongues.
A person changing his clothing always hides while changing.
While young, it's all dreams; when old, all memories.
Collect the water while it rains.
Sell what you have bought while the dust is still on your shoes.
Eat coconuts while you have teeth.
You are the game while the games lasts.
Cut of the sick part while it is still small.
A stick one bends while it is still green.
While the mouse in the walls may look from afar at a cat, he does well not to go squeaking about it.
Do not abuse midwives while child-bearing continues.
Do not abuse palm-wine tappers while drunkness persists.
Work the clay while it is still wet.
While the butchers were arguing, the cow dropped dead.
People should not talk while they are eating or pepper may go down the wrong way.
What the elders see while sitting the young ones standing on their toes won't see.
Strike while your employer has a big contract.
Plough your furrows deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
Don't change horses while crossing a stream.
Give me flowers while I live.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Beat the iron while it is hot.
You must knock a long while against an alder-bush before you get a swarm of bees out of it.
Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth.
There is no occasion for priests to marry, while peasants have wives.
While the pot boils, friendship blooms.
While young, it's all dreams; when old, all memories.
Handle the pudding while it's hot.
It's not a matter of upper and lower class but of being up a while and down a while.
Make hay while the sun shines.
An iron rod bends while it is hot.
While there's life, there's hope.
A spoiled son becomes a gambler, while a spoiled daughter becomes a harlot.
Eating while seated makes one of large size; eating while standing makes one strong.
Bend the tree while it is young.
Strike while the iron is hot.
You must marry a widow while she is still mourning.
While horse is strong travel to see places.
While father alive to get to know people.
A Stones will remain for ever while water passes.
A lizard that fell from the top of a tree wastes its time looking back to where it fell from; if there was anything good the lizard deserved, it could not have missed it while it was there on top of the tree.
Chasten thy son while there is hope.
While travelling, the load settles in place.
The fish was so fresh that it was being cooked while its tail was still in the sea.
While you still have bread, troubles are not troubles, true troubles are without bread.
Drink coffee while it's hot enough to make you swear but let the chocolate cool.
Time goes on while life runs out.
A lucky man can stumble upon a treasure while an unlucky one can't even find a mushroom.
Don't pluck the apple while it is green; when it is ripe it will fall of itself.
Success has many fathers, while failure is an orphan.
One searches for someone else's donkey while singing songs.
One eats while another watches-that is how revolutions are begun.
The little stars will always shine while the great sun is often eclipsed.
The mouse is silent while laboring, but when the baby is conceived, she cries.
A belt fastened while running will come undone while running.
Clothes put on while running come off while running.
Do not sweep someone else's home while yours is dirty.
While life yet lasts, laughter and molasses.
Never sit while your seniors stand.
Don't go selling the hide while the bear remains in the hole.
While we pursue happiness, we flee from contentment.
While the wooden idols are tormenting me, the termites are tormenting them.
While alive in rags; when dead in satin to cover the body.
The mother keeps on caring for her daughter while the daughter keeps on craving for her husband.
Saving mustard seeds in hand, while a watermelon escapes.
Every once in a while, declare peace. It confuses the hell out of your enemies.
To die while serving the empire is the hope of every klingon.
A stick one bends while it is still green.
Do not insult a crocodile while your feet are still in the water.
He that has a white horse and a fair wife need never want for trouble.
The white man never forgets Europe.
When the white man is about to leave a garden for good, he wrecks it.
The white man lives in the castle; when he dies, he lies in the ground.
Even black hens lay white eggs.
If he says yogurt is white, I'll say it's black.
The umbrella was made for rainy days, the white man uses it for the sun.
White flowers are not to be found in a coal sack.
Soap is grey but it used to be white.
Even though chickens don't wash, their eggs are still white.
A white piastre for a black day.
Is the white camel made of fat?
Do not pretend to be a white fowl.
A stranger is like a white fowl.
The zebra told the white horse, "I am white," and told the black horse, "I am actually black."
A black hen lays a white egg.
A black plum is as sweet as a white.
Literal meaning: Save your white penny for your black day.
Under white ashes lie often glowing embers.
Lawyers and painters can soon change white to black.
One white foot, buy him; two white feet, try him; three white feet, look well about him; four white feet, go without him.
Black cows give white milk.
Many a white collar covers a dirty neck.
First God, then the white man.
Under white ashes there is glowing coal.
The white coat does not make the miller.
Out of a white egg often comes a black chick.
February fill dyke, be it black or be it white.
Save something for the man that rides on the white horse.
Even the white lily casts a shadow.
Black christmas, white easter.
Black soil produces white bread.
White elephant born in the forest.
White wine strengthens the hip.
Black souls wear white shirts.
When you shoot a zebra in the black stripe, the white dies too; shoot it in the white and the black dies too.
Beware of a white Spaniard and a black Englishman.
Black hens lays white eggs.
A black hen lays a white egg.
White meal is not got out of a coal-sack.
Love makes the owl seem prettier than a white falcon.
A white day sheds light, and a black day sheds darkness.
May you be as big as the white mountain.
White men have too many chiefs.
Just one by one white hairs have come, and thus have they grown.
To the white horse the zebra said: 'i am white too,' and to the black horse: 'i am really black.'
A black cow also gives white milk.
The white man has no kin. His kin is his money.
Lawyers and painters can soon make what's black, white.
If there had been no poverty in europe, then the white man would not have come and spread his clothes in africa.
You are a white mout fowl.
No married woman will have her white hair shaved at her mother's.
Just one by one white hairs have come, and thus have they grown.
A rosy face in the morning, white bones in the evening.
You cannot draw white cloth from a dying vat.
It is only the early risers who succeed in filling their baskets with white ants.
As long as the white man stutters, the interpreters have a lot of work.
The white ant is small but it creates the great anthill.
Generosity is white and pure like milk.
A white tooth has a bloody root.
Black fowl can lay white eggs.
Dirt is dirtiest upon clean white linen.
Naught's a naught and figger's a figger – all for the white man and none for the nigger.
When the white man wins, it is a battle.
The white penny will become useful in your dark days.
Hope is an egg, of which one man gets the yolk, another the white, and a third the shell.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
When a dove begins to associate with crows its feathers remain white but its heart grows black.
There'll be white blackbirds before an unwilling woman ties the knot.
To the raven her own chick is white.
A white wall is the fool's paper.
Every white hath its black, and every sweet its sour.
He that has a white horse and a fair wife never wants trouble.
Two blacks do not make a white.
Give the white child so that the black child doesn't cry.
The dead do not know the value of white sheets.
The black man steals just half of very little, but the white man steals the whole sugar plantation.
Black ewe and white ewe: they who die, die, and those who live, live.
All that's yellow is not gold, and all white things are not eggs.
Priests dressed in black bring bad tidings, in white they take you to the cemetery.
The white head often lacks good sense.
Dark ground gives good bread; white ground is quickly tired.
Kamau who is white becomes black.
When a miller fights with a chimney sweep, the miller gets black and the chimney sweep gets white.
A white Christmas fills the churchyard.
Tell your affairs in the market-place, and one will call them black and another white.
White hands are no offence.
A white glove often conceals a dirty hand.
For an ant to have wings would be his undoing.
A bad rumour flies on wings.
The butterfly that brushes against thorns will tear its wings.
A child without education is like a bird without wings.
Words have no wings but they can fly many thousands of miles.
God knows why he has made the wings of some birds shorter.
Don't imitate the fly before you have wings.
Bad news has wings.
God did not give wings to scorpions.
Words are like newly hatched eggs: they already have wings.
Words are like eggs: when they are hatched they have wings.
Angels bend down their wings to a seeker of knowledge.
You cannot fly with wings made of butter.
We desire to bequest two things to our children–the first one is roots; the other one is wings.
I give thee flight without wings.
The prayer of the innocent has no wings.
Good news crawls on its belly; bad news has wings.
Talk of the devil, and you'll hear the rustle of his wings.
A bird only flies as high as his wings take him.
Scandal is like an egg; when it is hatched it has wings.
A lie has no legs, but a scandal has wings.
The ant had wings to her hurt.
When an ant gets wings, it loses its head.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not having given it wings.
Money has wings.
The earth has ears, news has wings.
He covers me with his wings, and bites me with his bill.
He wants to fly before he has wings.
A baby is an angel whose wings decrease as his legs increase.
God gives wings to the ant that she may perish the sooner.
The ant gets wings that she may perish sooner.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not giving it wings.
Tald ob de debil an you heeh he wings.
I am being carried on great wings across the sky.
Riches have wings.
Every bird flies with its own wings.
Mischief has swift wings.
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.
The sky is wide enough for two birds to fly without their wings touching.
The bird, which flaps its wings too much, will drop its feathers.
Fear lends wings.
Pigs might fly lest they had wings.
Misfotunes come on wings and depart on foot.
Though the fox runs, the pullets have wings.
Bad news proceeds by wings, good news hardly walks.
Fear gives wings.
No flying without wings.
The wagtail hops and flaps its wings, but the male dove feeds and coos.
The little bird that flaps its wings too much will spoil them.
Folly hath eagle's wings, but the eyes of an owl.
Don't try to fly before you have wings.
There is no flying without wings.
Who wings, drives away care.
Avoid a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak.
You are looking for wings in a wolf.
Don't blame God for creating the tiger -- instead, thank him for not giving it wings.
He flies by his own wings. Alis volat propriis.
Every evil comes to us on wings and goes away limping.
I give thee flight without wings.
The fly that plays too long in the candle, singes his wings at last.
Make not thy tail broader than thy wings. [Keep not too many attendants.].
Sincerity gives wings to power.
Taking water from the same well doesn't make all the wives' gravy taste good.
All married women are not wives.
If your husband has many wives, the only sure way for him into you're the bedroom is through a delicious meal.
Borrowed wives, like borrowed books, are seldom returned.
Prudent men choose frugal wives.
There is no occasion for priests to marry, while peasants have wives.
Thousands of men were murdered because of their beautiful wives.
Mills and wives are ever wanting.
When men take wives they stop fearing hell.
Roof tiles are positioned to face downwards so that husbands and wives can be left alone.
It is hunger that killed the man with many wives.
Two wives, two pots of poison.
Wives serve, brothers inherit.
A chief may have more wives than he can remember but you dare not try to share his wives with him.
If you have five wives, then you have five tongues.
Wives maun be had whether gude or bad.
Wives must be had, be they good or bad.
Bad legs and ill wives should stay at hame.
Auld wives and bairns mak fools o' physicians.
Wives from the mountains and husbands from the cities.
The husbands belong to the wives and hookers are for the wild beast.
Two wives are two pots full of poison.
Who wives for a dower, resigns his own power.
Out of ten men there are nine wives.
All are good lasses, but whence come bad wives?
We are all wanderers on this earth. Our hearts are full of wonder, and our souls are deep with dreams.
Some men wonder over God's values, others over the cut of a garment.
A wise man is a great wonder.
The world likes to have night-owls, that it may have matter for wonder.
No wonder lasts more than three days.
It's better when people wonder why you didn't say something than why you did.
No wonder lasts over three days.
If the throat can grant passage to a knife, the anus should wonder how to expel it.
Wonder at your auld shoon when ye hae gotten your new.
Every wonder lasts three days.
He who has not seen seville has not seen a wonder.
Eyes that you have made cry, cry; so it's no wonder if they tear.
No wonder if he breaks his head who stumbles twice over one stone.
Wonder lasts but nine nights in a Town.
Nae wonder to see wasters want.
Some people make things happen, some watch things happen, while others wonder what has happened.
A north wind has no corn, and a poor man no friend.
There is no wave without wind.
Though the wind blows, the mountain does not move.
You cannot cook your eggs with wind.
Look for wind in a field.
An empty mill will turn without the wind.
Where is there a tree not shaken by the wind?
He who believes in dreams feeds on wind.
Wind and fortune are not lasting.
There are three uncertainties: woman, wind, and wealth.
To set fire to the wood, you need the help of the wind.
He who blows into the wind gets smoke in his eyes.
Let what is on this side of the bank be washed out by the flood, and what is on that side of the bank be carried away by the wind.
High trees catch lots of wind.
Words and feathers are carried away by the wind.
People are like plants in the wind: they bow down and rise up again.
Even as a solid rock is unshaken by the wind, so are the wise unshaken by praise or blame.
The driver of an ass must by necessity know its wind.
A willow before the wind.
If I peddle salt, it rains; if I peddle flour, the wind blows.
Large trees are envied by the wind.
Life? That is a candle in the wind; frost upon a roof; the twitching of the fish in a pan.
A tree doesn't move unless there is wind.
The tree will not sway without a trace of wind.
As long as there is no wind, the tree won't blow.
Every tree feels the force of the wind.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
It's an ill wind that blows no good.
Words are but wind, but blows unkind.
A little wind kindles, much puts out the fire.
Words and feathers the wind carries away.
Close the door from which the wind blows and relax.
The still swine eat the mash. the wind ones run past it.
You can't direct the wind, but you can adjust your sails.
Women are as wavering as the wind.
We cannot direct the wind, but we can adjust the sails.
Another man's horse and your own spurs outrun the wind.
Any man can lose his hat in a fairy – wind.
There's no need to fear the wind if your haystacks are tied down.
He may die of wind but he'll never die of wisdom.
Words, cast them to the wind.
Eat the wind and swallow bitterness.
Good wind needs no bush.
Never seek the wind in the field. It is useless to try and find what is gone.
A fly, a harlot, a beggar, a rat, and gusty wind; the village-boss and the tax collector – these seven are always annoying to others.
Whatever the wind brings he takes away with him.
When the wind is in the east, 'tis neither good for man nor beast.
When the wind serves, all aid.
To a crazy ship every wind is contrary.
He is a fool who does not know from what quarter the wind blows.
Small rain lays a great wind.
You must shift your sail with the wind.
A puff of wind and popular praise weigh alike.
When you spit against the wind you get a dirty beard.
An empty barrel sings in the wind.
The weather vane will not work without wind.
You can't blow against the wind.
It is the great north wind that made the Vikings.
A boy's will is the will of the wind.
There is no wind that blows right for the sailor who doesn't know where the harbor is.
You should always prefer wind to water.
He who sowed wind, reaps a typhoon.
Monreale, a city without comfort, either it rains, or the wind blows, or bells ring for the dead.
A sheep's wool sky means wind's to follow, either a Levant or a West wind or a Sirocco.
When you think you have the wind at your back, that's when you'll be disappointed.
No wind is too cold for lovers.
Tall trees catch much wind.
He that is at sea has not the wind in his hands.
It is good sailing with wind and tide.
It's a big wind that blows on small doors.
Law is a flag and gold is the wind that makes it wave.
However would the string wind, the end will be reached.
If the wind does not blow, the leaves do not move.
A fair-weather friend changes with the wind.
From the direction of the wind.
If there is no wind, row.
If they speak, they are wind; if they are silent, they are gourds.
If you spit against the wind, you spit in your own face.
The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood.
A wise man can hear profit in the wind.
The wind does not respect a fool.
The wind of heaven is that which blows between the horses ears.
The wind sweeps the road clean.
Who listens to the voice of the elderly is like a strong tree; who turns a deaf ear is like a twig in the wind.
Who sows wind will harvest storm.
The wind does not break a tree that can bend.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
It is an ill wind that blows nobody any good.
To live with wolves, you have to howl like a wolf.
The ass of many owners is eaten by wolves.
He that lives with wolves, must howl with wolves.
None so keen at the hunting of wolves as the dog with wolf blood.
The bites of priests and wolves are hard to heal.
Wolves have howled at the moon for centuries, yet it is still there.
He who lives among wolves learns to howl.
Wolves don't eat wolves.
He howls with the wolves, and bleats with the sheep.
One would rather be bitten by wolves than by sheep.
He who herds with wolves, learns to howl.
Wolves are often hidden under sheep's clothing.
Wolves never gossip about each other.
Who herds with wolves, must howl with wolves.
Go hunting for rabbits - be eaten by wolves.
The dog that kills wolves, is killed by wolves.
The dog was asked: Why do you bark? - To scare the wolves. - Why do you wag your tail? -What do you think, am I not afraid of wolves?
Wolves do not eat each other.
When sheep get angry they are worse than wolves.
One must howl with the wolves.
God saves the moon from the wolves.
Wolves do not eat each other.
The dog that kills wolves, is killed by wolves.
If you live with wolves learn to howl.
The ass of many owners is food for wolves.
Live with wolves, and you learn to howl.
Where there are no dogs the wolves will howl.
A precipice in front of you, and wolves behind you; that is life.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
Rear dogs and wolves' cubs to rend you.
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
To fear the wolves - not to go into the woods.
That's how the world is: wolves kill sheep.
A foreign land is a land of wolves.
The death of the wolves is the safety of the sheep.
A lamb [sheep] away from the herd will be devoured by wolves.
So you tell me there are wolves on the mountain, and foxes in the valley.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
When you drink milk under the palm tree, people will say that it is palm wine.
Some men will build a wine cellar when they have found just one grape.
Beer before wine, you'll feel fine. Wine before beer, you'll feel queer.
Pretty wife, old wine -- many friends.
One sip of wine is an antidote against death, cupfuls poison life.
You can't put new wine in old bottles.
A rash man, a skin of good wine, and a glass vessel, do not last long.
When wine comes in, modesty leaves.
Beware of the vinegar of sweet wine.
Drink a glass of wine after your soup and you will be stealing a ruble from the doctor.
Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle.
Where the hostess is beautiful the wine is tasty.
Wine bears no blame - only the drunkard.
Some men build a wine cellar after only finding one grape.
The wine has been poured and must be drunk.
At the first cup man drinks wine, at the second wine drinks wine, at the third wine drinks man.
It is only one bad palm tree that spoils the whole lot of palm wine.
Ask no favors and people everywhere are affable; if you don't drink, it doesn't matter what price wine is.
Even the judge was drunk when the wine was free.
He who is drunk from wine can sober up, he who is drunk from wealth cannot.
Good wine needs no bush.
Put new wine into old bottles..
A fish should swim thrice: in water, in sauce, and in wine.
Good wine is milk for the aged.
Wine and women make fools of everybody.
Wine upon beer is very good cheer; beer upon wine consider with fear.
Women and wine, game and deceit, Make the wealth small and the wants great.
The wine is sweet, the paying bitter.
A barrel that contains the wine will retain the drop in its staves.
Wine divulges truth.
From the sweetest wine, the tartest vinegar.
Old truths, old laws, old friends, old books, and old wine are best.
Wine is old men's milk.
When wine enters modesty departs.
Thick wine is better than clear water.
Drink wine and let water go to the mill.
Strong is the vinegar of sweet wine.
A cask of wine works more miracles than a church full of saints.
When wine sinks, words swim.
A meal without wine is like a day without sunshine.
Good wine makes good blood.
He is a fool who boasts of four things: that he has good wine, a good horse, a handsome wife, and plenty of money.
Old wine and friends improve with age.
The cask can give no other wine that that it contains.
The matchmaker gets three cups of wine when he succeeds and three slaps on the cheek when he fails.
He preaches water and drinks wine.
To a man wine is like water is to the boat; it can carry him or guzzle him up.
Water makes mud, wine cleans the blood.
If the sea were made of wine, how many drunkards there would be.
Choose bread with eyes, cheese without eyes and wine that makes your eyes pop.
Choose old wine and new oil.
White wine strengthens the hip.
Good wine needs no bush.
The cart ruins the road, the woman the man, the water the wine.
The best wine has its lees.
Where the hostess is handsome the wine is good.
When the wine is run out, you stop the leak.
Vodka is the aunt of wine.
Don't put new wine into old bottles.
There are two kinds of Chinese: those who give wine and those who drink it.
There's no harm in wine, it's drunkenness that is at fault.
Drink wine upon figs.
After stuffing pears within, drink old wine until they swim.
Four things put a man beside himself--women, tobacco, cards, and wine.
Fresh port and new wine, send a Christian to the churchyard.
Friends and wine should be old.
When your wine is finished, conversation ends; when your money has been spent, you lose your friends.
Speak plain -- call bread bread, and wine wine.
Wine from a pot is better than water from a well.
Youth is intoxication without wine; old age, wine without intoxication.
Who has wine for dinner, he has water for breakfast.
Without wine, even beautiful cherry blossoms have small attraction.
Wine is the best broom for troubles.
With the first glass a man drinks wine, with the second glass the wine drinks the wine, with the third glass the wine drinks the man.
A thousand cups of wine do not suffice when true friends meet, but half a sentence is too much when there is no meeting of minds.
Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden.
If you see in your wine the reflection of a person not in your range of vision, don't drink it.
It does not matter if your tavern sits in a remote location so long as the smell of your wine is appealing.
Three glasses of wine end a hundred quarrels.
Just as a medicine may not cure a serious illness, wine will certainly not dispel your grief.
He who drinks wine without libation is a traitor to the gods.
You don't have to climb the palm wine tree to drink palm wine.
You can hide wine in a gourd but not in the belly.
A palm wine taper does not stop tapping palm wine because he once fell from the top of a palm wine tree.
Fresh pork and new wine kill a man before his time.
It is a good wind that blows a man to the wine.
Wine sets an edge to wit.
A lord without land, is like a cask without wine.
Woe to the high spirited bride whose mother-in-law is still alive.
When bulls fight, woe to the frogs.
'tis one beggar's woe, to see another by the door go.
Woe to Leili's doogh, the yogurt was too little and the water too much.
Kin or no kin, woe to him who has nothing.
A woman's in pain, a woman's in woe, a woman is ill, when she likes to be so.
The dog that is quarrelsome and not strong, woe to his hide.
Blessed is the man who has friends, but woe to him who needs them.
Woe to him who sits upon a branch.
Woe is he whose meal is in the river.
When the blind leads the way, woe to those who follow.
Woe be to him whose advocate becomes his accuser.
Every day hath its night, every weal its woe.
When the goose trusts the fox then woe to her neck.
Woe to the man that entrusts his secrets to a ditch.
Woe to being a housewife/househusband, you buy one thing, you don't have two others.
A hasty man never wanted woe.
Woe unto the patient whose doctors argue.
When the blind man carries the banner, woe to those who follow.
Whether the pitcher strike the stone, or the stone the pitcher, woe be to the pitcher.
If the pitcher knocks against a stone, woe to the pitcher; and if the stone knocks against the pitcher, woe to the pitcher.
Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe. Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for its living, And a child that's born of the Sabbath day Is fair and wise and good and gay.
He said: "Woe!" and the boat sank with him. He said: "Alas!" and the rudder broke. The young man said: "Ah god!" and the boat reached its destination.
When the cook is roasting for the butler, woe to the master's wine-cask.
Woe to him who fails in his obligations. • He is a sorry wretch who fails to keep his bonds.
Woe to him whose betrayer sits at his table.
Woe to the house where the hen crows and the rooster is still.
One kind word can warm winter months.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
The winter will ask what we did all summer.
In winter a fire is better than a muscat blossom.
A pig on credit makes a good winter and a bad spring.
There is no winter without snow, no spring without sunshine, and no happiness without companions.
I can do nothing about governments and winter.
The winter does not leave without a backward glance.
It is never winter in the land of hope.
An old man loved is a winter with flowers.
Those who don't pick roses in summer won't pick them in winter either.
Winter comes fast on the lazy.
A misty winter brings a pleasant spring, a pleasant winter a misty spring.
An old man in love is like a flower in winter.
A bush does note grow berries in winter.
The rich man gets his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter.
They who sing through the summer must dance in the winter.
The wolf, dog does not eat the winter.
Winter will ask you what you did during the summer.
The bad fortune of zoza: in winter it sees not the sun and in summer it sees not the moon.
The summer comes and kisses the child, the winter comes and kills it.
Winter either bites with its teeth or lashes with its tail.
If the winter doesn't winter, and the summer doesn't summer, the farmstead will be in trouble.
If you want to experience the pains of hell, spend winter in Messina and summer in Palermo.
On Saint Candelora day, if it's snowing or raining, there'll be another forty days of winter.
The winter does not go without looking backward.
One crow does not make a winter.
The rich man has his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter.
Autumn is the hush before winter.
In the kingdom of hope, there is no winter.
You have summer and you have winter -- why, then, be in a hurry?
Consider how long the winter will last.
An autumn day feeds a whole winter.
If Candlemas day be sunny and bright, winter will have another flight; if Candlemas day be cloudy with rain, winter is gone and won't come again.
Because men do not like the cold, Heaven does not cause winter to cease.
Better the cold blast of winter than the hot breath of a pursuing elephant.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
In spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to what the woman has been thinking all winter.
No summer, but has its winter.
A fat woman is a blanket for the winter.
It must be a hard winter when one wolf devours another.
True friendship does not freeze in the winter.
One crow does not make a winter.
The old one who is loved is like a winter flower.
There is no winter for who has remained in his mother's womb.
Whoever feeds the wolf in the winter will be eaten by him in the spring.
The fireside is the tulip bed of a winter day.
He who does not collect in summer, will heat little in winter.
Candlemas, candlemas, whether windy or rainy, winter has ended.
Lord, make us shepherds in spring and swineherds in winter.
By Saint Candelora day if it's not snowing or raining, winter is over.
When there's a clear horizon in winter, there'll be the devil to pay.
Use your time in May to stock up for winter.
The first snow does not mean winter, nor the first love marriage.
Who wants yoghurt in winter must carry a cow in his pocket.
When the summer is winter, and the winter is summer, it is a sorry year.
He that would be healthy must wear his winter clothes in summer.
The winter is gone, the spring is come, a fly for those who us good have done.
Winter is summer's heir.
Winter never rots in the sky.
Spring succeeds to winter.
An hour in summer is more than a day in winter.
We have two seasons: winter and the Fourth of July.
For lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone. The flowers appear on the earth, the time of pruning the vines has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
Never dread the winter till the snow is on the blanket.
Winter comes on the lazy man.
Candlemas, Candlemas, whether windy or rainy, winter has ended. And if the weather is good, winter will last another thirty days.
There are four things to which you should not lend credence: love of women, the charity of friars, sun in the winter, and clouds in the summer.
Winter has winter's manners.
It is a hard winter when one wolf eats another.
To have luck needs little wit.
An enterprizing foole needs little wit.
Better wit than wealth.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Piety, prudence, wit, and civility, are the elements of true nobility.
Much chatter, little wit.
To be lucky you need a little wit.
More luck than wit.
The less wit a man has, the less he knows that he wants it.
A man may learn wit every day.
God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn.
If you be a jester, keep your wit till you have use for it.
His wit got wings and would have flown, But poverty still kept him down.
Great wit drives away wisdom.
A fall into a ditch, a gain in your wit.
It's the orator's wit to make a story appear old.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a dagger.
If you have wit and learning, add to it wisdom and modesty.
When the ale is in, wit is out.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
Want is the whetstone of wit.
The wit of one man, the wisdom of many.
Ye'll neither dee for your wit nor be drowned for a warlock.
Wine sets an edge to wit.
Wit is more often a shield than a lance.
He is wise that has wit enough for his own affairs.
Wit is folly unless a wise man hath the keeping of it.
Where there is no wit within no wit will come out.
Might and courage require wit in their suite.
Bought wit is best.
When the wine is in, the wit is out.
God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn.
Much laughter, little wit.
If young men had wit and old men strength everything might be well done.
When the wine is in, the wit is out.
He who has not enough wit in the head, should force to replace it in the leg.
Bush natural; more hair than wit.
Wealth gars wit waver.
Meikle Head, little Wit.
Wit in a poor mans head, and mosse in a mountain, avails nothing.
He that looks not e're he loup, will fall e're he wit of himself.
The next time ye dance, wit whom ye take by the hand.
When ale goes in, the wit goes out.
When the wine is in the man, the wit is in the can.
Big head, little wit.
The Germans carry their wit in their fingers.
Wit without discretion is a sword in the hand of a fool.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
There is nothing more telling than wit.
For when the wine is in the wit is out. (Thomas Becon)
Wit and beauty seldom come together.
The more money, the happier; the more wit, the happier.
When drink is in, wit is out.
Want of wit is waur than want of health.
The drum sounds when the hawk appears wit ha rabbit.
Better wit than wealth.
If a woman sees a stick for beating her rival, she will throw it away in the woods.
Don't crow till you're out of the woods.
There are men who walk through the woods and see no trees.
Rather one bird in the hand, than ten in the woods.
Who is timid in the woods boasts at home.
Who is afraid of wolf should not go into the woods.
Gold and green woods.
In dense woods the trees grow straight.
In small woods may be caught large hares.
Hunger fetches the wolf out of the woods.
The dog that is forced into the woods will not hunt many deer.
Woods have ears, fields have eyes.
Even woods have ears.
Woods have ears and fields have eyes.
Work is unlike wolf; it won't run to the woods.
Don't drive a Binya into the woods if he has found his way to your house.
He who fears every bramble should not go to the woods.
To fear the wolves - not to go into the woods.
A babe in the woods.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the woods.
From the woods a beautiful pheasant, from the sea a beautiful moray eel, from the river a den eel, from the cage a beautiful chicken.
In heaven you wont hear the mosquitoes.
A genuine ruby wont sink and disappear in mud.
Words alone wont break bones.
What johny wont learn, john wont know.
When you will, they wont, when you wont, they will.
Guilty conscience wont let the eddoes cook.
Hard-ears you wont hear, own-way ya will feal.
A wepon which you don't have in hand wont kill a snake.
One who hides private parts wont get a child.
He that is kinder than he was wont hath a design upon thee.
He may eat it or not, he wont get anything else.
He wont pick strawberries into the basket on somebody else.
Wont beguil'd the Lady.
Faint heart ne'er won fair lady.
All women may be won.
Don't divide the spoil before the victory is won.
As won, so spent.
Men who have lost heart never yet won a trophy.
The person who is well prepared has already won half of the battle.
He who is well prepared has won the battle.
He that is won with a nut, may be lost with an apple.
A strong attack is half the battle won.
Between brothers, whether the trial is won or lost, makes no difference.
A good beginning is a halfway a battle won.
Never mock a fowl with raffled feathers it might have won a fight.
A friend won with a feather can be lost with a straw.
Boldly ventured is half won.
Do not divide the spoil till the victory is won.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Time lost cannot be won again.
It's weel won that's aff the wame.
Nothing ventured, nothing won.
Well started is half won.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
The spoken word sometimes loses what silence has won.
We won the war, but lost peace.
Boldly ventured is half won.
Tomorrow's battle is won during today's practice.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Ill won gear winna enrich the third heir.
A few things gained by fraud destroy a fortune otherwise honestly won.
A wise man makes his own decisions, but an ignorant man mindlessly follows the crowd.
The wise man who does not put his knowledge into practice is like a bee that gives no honey.
Who is wise? He who learns from all men.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth and the mouth of the wise man is in his heart.
Wise men honor their wives.
It is a wise man who can laugh at his own jokes.
Any wise enemy is better than an ignorant friend.
The fool speaks, the wise man listens.
It is better to carry stones with a wise man than accept the meal of a madman.
Do not be wise in words – be wise in deeds.
The stupid fear fortune, the wise endure it.
The wise understand by themselves, fools follow the reports of others.
We start as fools and become wise through experience.
A wise man learns at the fool's expense.
Not until just before dawn do people sleep best; not until people get old do they become wise.
A still tongue makes a wise head.
Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.
A closed mouth–a wise head.
As the wise man looks for a bridge the fool crosses the river.
Though the snake be small, it is still wise to hit it with a big stick.
A wise man cares not for what he cannot have.
Honest men marry soon, wise men never.
A father deserted by a wise son is like being caught in a shower without a felt.
The wise man's wealth lies in good deeds that follow ever after him.
With money in your pocket, you are wise, and you are handsome, and you sing well too.
Wise men philosophize as the fools live on.
He who trusts is happy; the doubter is wise.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
Better wise language than well combed hair.
Better a wise man's servant than an idiot's master.
A fool may sometimes give a wise man counsel.
A foolish fox is caught by one leg, but a wise one by all four.
Wise man's anger never comes out.
Wise rising gives joy.
The wise man never takes a step too long for his leg.
When a son attends to his father, it is a twofold joy for both; when wise things are prescribed to him, the son is.
The wise man is great through his own merits.
If you are wise, look after your house; love your wife without alloy.
In a fight with a fool it's a wise man who quits.
A wise man without a book is like a workman with no tools.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth, the mouth of a wise man is in his heart.
A little nod is enough for the wise man; an ass needs a fist.
The same destiny awaits both the wise man and the fool.
Even as a solid rock is unshaken by the wind, so are the wise unshaken by praise or blame.
The wise man affirms little and doubt much.
I grew up among wise men and found that there is nothing better for man than silence.
Not all those who are old are wise.
A wise mans ink lasts until only the stupid remain.
The wise are as rare as eagles that fly high in the sky.
There is no wise response to a foolish remark.
The mouse in the wall may look at a cat, but he is wise not to squeak about it.
Foresight could make wise men of durraman's donkeys.
When a fool becomes enlightened, the wise man is in trouble.
A wise man does not lose his way, a brave man does not fear.
A wise man adapts himself to circumstances as water shapes itself according to the vessel that contains it.
A single conversation across the table with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study.
A mad man drops a rock into water well, so that thousand wise men can not take it out.
It is easier to wage war with wise enemies than be at peace with foolish friends.
A wise will is dedicated to the ancestors for its them who gave you everything.
The sayings of the wise are like the sharp sticks that shepherds use to guide sheep.
The wise create proverbs for fools to learn not to repeat.
The palm-wine we drink, some people can drink it and remain wise; others lose all their senses.
He who is wise endeavours to learn how to understand the truth not less than that.
Fools make feasts and wise men eat them.
He is a fool who cannot be angry but a wise man who will not.
A wise man is a great wonder.
The italians are wise before the deed; the germans in the deed; the french after the deed.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
A house well-furnished makes a woman wise.
Almsgiving never impoverished, stealing never enriched, and prosperity never made wise.
He that marries ere he be wise, will die ere he thrive.
It is easy to be wise after the event.
A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot; a dog travelling with good men becomes a rational being.
Consult the wise and do not disobey him.
Take wisdom from the wise - not everyone who rides a horse is a jockey.
An imbecile can manage his own affairs better than a wise man the affairs of other people.
One fool may ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
It is not always good to be wise.
A wise man, a strong man.
If everyone were wise, a fool would be the prize.
Nobody so wise but has a little folly to spare.
One cannot love and be wise.
The wise bird flies lowest.
There's never a wise man without fault.
A glutton lives to eat; a wise man eats to live.
A hint is sufficient for the wise.
People working on the slope of a mountain do not look at the buttocks of one another.
He who seems to be for you may be working against you.
Between wording and working is a long road.
When the screech-owl sings, you can try to go to work for someone else if you're working for a bad owner.
A person never gets tired working for himself.
Working in the fields is hard, but hunger is harder.
All are architects of fate working in these walls of time.
Common sense is genius dressed in its working clothes.
Working on the land is better than praying in the desert.
A man dies when he stops working.
The day is for working, the night is for resting.
By working in the smithy one becomes a smith.
One never tires working for oneself.
Working and painting are better from a distance.
An hour of thinking is more expensive than an hour of working.
It's a sin and shame, if one sweats at working for a stranger.
Working and working at it, iron can be pulverized.
You never get tired of working for yourself.
Wisdom cannot be bought with money, yet it is worth the most.
A madman does not lack wisdom.
Wisdom does not come overnight.
Doubt is the beginning not the end of wisdom.
You cannot buy wisdom abroad if there is none at home.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
Deep doubts, deep wisdom; small doubts, little wisdom.
Women are stronger than men, they do not die of wisdom.
Continual cheerfulness is a sign of wisdom.
A drop of wisdom is better than a sea of gold.
Once I had the strength but no wisdom; now I have the wisdom but no strength.
Thinking is the essence of wisdom.
The hot sun melts away the snow; when anger comes, does wisdom go.
Knowing just one word of wisdom is like knowing a hundred ordinary words.
Under a ragged coat lies wisdom.
Gold without wisdom is but clay.
Useless wisdom is double foolishness.
Adversity brings wisdom.
His money takes the place of wisdom.
Experience is the father of wisdom.
Seek wisdom like a begger.
Wisdom is in the books.
Wisdom can be found travelling.
The tortoise stores its wisdom in his shell.
Only through suffering and sorrow do we acquire the wisdom not found in books.
Boasting begins where wisdom stops.
Knowledge without wisdom is a load of books on the back of an ass.
Wisdom is not like money to be tied up and hidden.
The mouth of an elderly man is without teeth, but never without words of wisdom.
Knowledge is proud that he knows so much; wisdom is humble that he knows no more.
Experience is the father of wisdom and memory the mother.
It is a great point of wisdom to find out one's own folly.
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
Wisdom consists of ten parts -- nine parts of silence and one part with few words.
Take wisdom from the wise - not everyone who rides a horse is a jockey.
Words of wisdom comes out of simple people mouths.
Great things are done more through courage than through wisdom.
Bought wisdom is best.
A dram of discretion is worth a pound of wisdom.
Solitude is the nurse of wisdom.
He may die of wind but he'll never die of wisdom.
Food is no more important than wisdom, The beginning of wisdom is the fear of God.
Though wisdom is good in the beginning, it is better at the end.
Two things that go for loss-turf on a mountain and the wisdom of a poor man.
Wisdom is what makes a poor man a king, a weak person powerful, a good generation of a bad one, a foolish man reasonable.
Gray hair is a sign of age, not of wisdom.
Even from an enemy a man can learn wisdom.
If a rich man ate a snake, they would say it was because of his wisdom.
If old age was the same as wisdom, any old donkey would be a celebrated Justice.
The fear of God is the beginning of all wisdom.
Much laugher, short wisdom.
When anger comes, wisdom goes.
To the world wisdom is folly; to the wise the world is foolish.
From listening comes wisdom, and from speaking repentance.
The dying cannot leave their wisdom or experience to their heirs.
Wisdom is easy to carry but difficult to gather.
Do more things by wisdom than by force.
One should do more by wisdom than by force.
Beauty without wisdom is like a flower in the mud.
Wisdom is in the head and not in the beard.
It is wisdom to prevent someone from whom one cannot accept repayment to have access to one's valuable possessions.
Adversity brings knowledge, and knowledge wisdom.
A spoon does not know the taste of soup, nor a learned fool the taste of wisdom.
Too much bragging drives away wisdom.
Wisdom is in the head, not in the beard.
It's vain to learn wisdom yet live foolishly.
Much wisdom is smothered in a poor man's head.
Wisdom is born; stupidity is learned.
Silence is wisdom and gets a man friends.
Consideration is the parent of wisdom.
Tis wisdom sometimes to seem a fool.
Foolishness first, then wisdom.
One head cannot hold all wisdom.
Wisdom comes only when you stop looking for it and start living the life the Creator intended for you.
Every man must act in the rhythm of his time, such is wisdom.
Wisdom and serenity should not unduly weigh down a person.
Never confuse wisdom with luck.
The chief's wisdom is a mesh of old stories, good and bad.
With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping.
The wisdom of the elderly is like the sun, it illuminates the village and the great river.
There is more wisdom in listening than in speaking.
Happy is he who hath in himself praise and wisdom in life.
No one will say, "My father is incontinent." Everyone will say, "He is a man of advice and wisdom."
Wisdom is more precious than rubies.
There is no way to teach a machine wisdom after folly.
The idle remarks of the rich are taken as maxims of wisdom by the poor.
Great wit drives away wisdom.
Wealth gets in the way of wisdom.
No matter how beautiful and well crafted a coffin might look, it will not make anyone wish for death.
Not to know is bad; not to wish to know is worse.
Those who wish to sing always find a song.
Not to know is bad, not to wish to know is worse.
Be honorable yourself if you wish to associate with honorable people.
Be careful what you wish for, you might just get it.
Who does not wish to be like the wolf let him not wear its skin.
The wish is father to the thought.
A person's worst enemy can't wish on him what he can think up himself.
He who does not wish for little things does not deserve big things.
If you wish to know what a man is, place him in authority.
If every day was a sunny day, who would not wish for rain?
The wish is the father of the deed.
When a snake gets warm on ice, then a German will wish well to a Czech.
If you wish/ask, wish/ask for more.
A shrew gets her wish but suffers in the getting.
If you wish to be good, first believe that you are bad.
If you wish to know what a man is, make him king.
I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years.
A person who wish for something impossible.
Someone who wish something impossible.
If you wish your merit to be known, acknowledge that of other people.
Be careful what you wish for you might get it.
Choose your wife as you wish your children to be.
If you wish for peace, be ready for war.
When your companions get drunk and fight, Take up your hat, and wish them good night.
Better do it than wish it done.
If you wish to know what most occupies a man's thoughts, you have only to listen to his conversation.
If you wish to know the mind of a man, listen to his words.
Those who give birth to nincompoop it's not their wish.
Prayer is a wish turned upward.
Industry need not wish.
The wish is father to the thought.
Better to have than wish.
All wish to live long, but none to be called old.
If you wish to drown, do not torture yourself with shallow water.
What you do not wish for yourself, do not do it to your fellowmen either.
I wish to see him when I see the middle of my back.
Many kiss the hand they wish cut off.
If you wish to die young, make your physician your heir.
If you wish to do a good deed, consult no one.
If you don't wish to have rags for clothes, don't play with a dog.
The gods only hear one wish at a time, and nothing more.
Two rich persons do not wish each other a bird of ill omen.
If things are not as you wish, wish them as they are.
Young people tell what they are doing, old people what they have done, and fools what they wish to do.
If you wish to be well served, serve yourself.
The horse may wish to do one thing, but he who saddles him another.
What people in distress most wish for, they most readily believe.
I wish I were at home.
If you wish another to keep your secret, first keep it yourself.
Be old betimes, if you wish your old age to last.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
When they wish to eat a vulture, they call it a guinea fowl.
May the people wish you well. May your god grant what you are in agreement with.
The exhausting aspen trembled: wish I were a free coniferous tree!
A wish is a desire without an attempt.
May your every wish be granted.
Not to know is bad; not to wish to know is worse.
Wish is power.
Marriage is like a besieged castle; those who are on the outside wish to get in; and those who are on the inside wish to get out.
If you wish a thing done, go; if not, send.
A Christmas wish - may you never forget what is worth remembering, or remember what is best forgotten.
Put another way, satan is a person's wish to do evil.
What a man thinks up for himself, his worst enemy couldn't wish for him.
That my friend should be well is our wish, and that our enemies should be gone! May those friendly to you reach their goal as a ship does a friendly harbour! May your enemy, like the flood waters of a river, return to his city.
Who cares well for cats will marry as happily as he or she could ever wish.
Not to wish to recover is a mortal symptom.
Hear, see, be silent, if you wish to live (in peace).
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
Rather lose the wool than the sheep.
Bad is the wool that cannot be died.
The men are the wool of the tribe, but the women are the ones who weave the pattern.
It's a poor sheep that cannot carry its own wool.
"great cry and little wool,” said the fool, when he sheared a pig.
Don't go putting wool on a sheep's back.
All the wool is hair, more or less.
Better give the wool than the sheep.
Better to lose the wool than the sheep.
It is better to give away the wool than the sheep.
Noh care how boar hog try fi hide under sheep wool, ‘im grunt always betray ‘im.
A sheep's wool sky means wind's to follow, either a Levant or a West wind or a Sirocco.
Went to get wool, but returned bald.
Give me wool and tomorrow you will have a sheep.
Much noise and little wool, said the devil, when he was shearing the sow.
Many go out for wool, and come home shorn.
Never give the skin when you can pay with the wool.
Its no use going to the goat's house to look for wool.
The court of Rome likes not sheep without wool.
Wool is the gold of the faroes.
Great cry and little wool, as the devil said when he sheared the sow.
When you see a sheep's wool sky you know, if it doesn't rain today, it will rain in the morning.
If you don't collect the sheep early, you get neither the sheep nor the wool.
Even a ball of wool has a beginning.
Great cry and little wool, quoth the devil, when he sheared his hogs.
An easy shepherd makes the wolf void wool.
Better lose the wool than the sheep.
He who goes to collect wool may come back shorn.
Some have the fame, and other card the wool.
You seek wool from a donkey!
Would you shear a donkey for wool!
One who would quarrel about goats' wool.
He has grown in mom's wool basket.
Great cry and little wool.
It is hard to take wool off a goat.
You go to an ass for wool.
Better give the wool than the sheep.
A lot of crying and little wool.
(He/She) went looking for wool and came back shorn.
The deceived sheep that went for wool and came back shorn.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
You may know a lion by his claw.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
You reap the crop of another.
You reap what you sow.
You sail in the same boat.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
You seek water from a stone.
You seek wool from a donkey.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
You stick in the same mire.
You talk to a deaf man.
You talk to a wall.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
A poor workman always blames his tools.
A wise man without a book is like a workman with no tools.
The bad workman blames his tools.
He is a bad workman who cannot talk of work.
The workman is worthy of his hire.
It is a bad workman that has a bad saw.
At the end of the work, you may judge the workman.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools. (1640)
Diligent work makes a skilful workman.
A bad workman always blames his tools.
The workman is known by his work.
The work shows the workman.
The workman is known by his work.
The work tests the workman.
Work makes the workman.
A workman is known by his chips.
A bad workman always blames his tools.
A bad workman blames his tools.
As is the workman, so is the work.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
A poor old horse will have a worn out tail.
Between saying and doing, many a pair of shoes is worn out.
Love is worn like a wreath through the summers and the winters.
The church is an anvil which has worn out many hammers.
Silence is a fine jewel for a woman, but it is little worn.
When a net is worn out, it is thrown away on the shore.
Moustaches are respected, and beards worn even by goats.
The foolish man lies awake all night
Thinking of his many problems;
When the morning comes he is worn out
And his trouble is just as it was.
A rope breaks at a worn place.
The wolf has a thick neck, because he does his job on his own.
To live with wolves, you have to howl like a wolf.
Dogs that fight each other will join forces against the wolf.
I will not bite any dog,” says the shepherd's dog, "for I must save my teeth for the wolf.
The wolf changes only his coat -- not his character.
If you call one wolf, you invite the pack.
Talk of the wolf and behold his skin.
Wolf doesn't eat wolf.
Tis a silly sheep that confesses to the wolf.
There is never a cry of "Wolf!" but the wolf is in the district.
Hunger brings the wolf to the fold.
A wolf hankers after sheep even at his last gasp.
An old wolf is used to be shouted at.
I ran from the wolf but ran into a bear.
As hungry as a wolf.
The cub does not teach the Wolf.
The wolf is not afraid of the sheepdog, but he is of his chain.
The wolf is well pleased with the kick of a sheep.
None so keen at the hunting of wolves as the dog with wolf blood.
The woman who takes a wolf for a husband is always looking into the wood.
What the wolf does pleases his mate.
The wolf and the dog agree about the goat - which together they eat.
The yellow dog is brother to the wolf.
The fox will catch you with cunning, and the wolf with courage.
The wolf loves the fog.
If you cut down the trees you will find the wolf.
The wolf is upset about what he left behind, and the shepherd is upset about what he took away.
Lambs don't runs with the mouth of the sleeping wolf.
You may preach ever so long to the wolf, he will nevertheless call for the lamb before night.
your words are fair,” said the wolf, "but I will not come into the village.
If the wolf would cease his running, the people would cease their shouting.
If the wolf had stayed in the wood there would have been no hue and cry after him.
Like an Irish wolf she barks at her own shadow.
We had a dog, it helped the wolf.
Outside a sheep, inside a wolf.
One wolf does not kill another.
A hungry wolf is not at rest.
Talk of a wolf and the wolf appears.
Man is man's wolf.
When you see the wolf, do not look for his track.
The wolf is always said to be more terrible than he is.
Into the mouth of a wolf.
Who makes the wolf his companion should carry a dog under his cloak.
On every small pretext the wolf seizes the sheep.
The wolf is always left out of the reckoning.
Who keeps company with a wolf will learn to howl.
It's difficult to take a wolf cub without bringing in the whole pack.
The wolf, dog does not eat the winter.
Man is a wolf to man.
The wolf repents only in death.
If you run from a wolf, you may run into a bear.
A wise wolf hides his fangs.
Hunger drives the wolf from its den.
Who is afraid of wolf should not go into the woods.
If you see a Greek and a wolf, avoid the wolf and shoot the Greek.
A hungry wolf is stronger than a satisfied dog.
No sheep runs into the mouth of a sleeping wolf.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood.
A wolf in sheep's clothing.
He has seen the wolf.
The words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village.
On a small pretence the wolf devours the sheep.
Bad watch often feeds the wolf.
Counted sheep are eaten by the wolf.
Work is not a wolf, it's not going away to the forest.
'Tis a hard winter when one wolf eats another.
However you feed the wolf, he still looks at the wood.
Make a friend of the wolf, but keep your axe ready.
Make yourself a sheep and the wolf is ready.
No matter how much you feed a wolf, he will always return to the forest.
One wolf does not bite another.
Do you want to see a wolf with young? Marry your daughter.
A starving man will eat with the wolf.
The wolf and the dog do not play together.
The wolf changes his coat, but not his disposition.
The caribou feeds the wolf, but it is the wolf who keeps the caribou strong.
The wolf and the shaman are of one nest.
While keeping a tiger from the front door, the wolf comes in at the back.
Fight a wolf with a flex stalk.
The lone wolf may yet kill as many deer as a pack.
The wolf barks in vain at the moon.
Where the cattle are, there the wolf shall die.
It is easy to cut the tail of a dead wolf.
It is easy to fool the young wolf.
Hunger fetches the wolf out of the woods.
It is better to keep a wolf out of the fold than to trust drawing his teeth and talons after he shall have entered.
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
If you mentioned the wolf you better prepare the stick.
You cannot worship an unknown saint.
The members of the family are in distress, but the idols are worshipped.
You can worship a sardine's head if you believe in it.
If you have a dog to worship you, you must have a cat to ignore you.
Worship the gods of where you live.
He will never worship well the image on the altar who knew it when it was a trunk of wood in the garden.
Wealth makes worship.
More cost, more worship.
Men worship the rising, not the setting sun.
The greater your troubles, the greater is your opportunity to show yourself a worthy person.
A worthy woman is the crown of her husband.
He who prizes little things is worthy of great ones.
A poor person is often worthy.
He that despises the small is not worthy of the great.
The workman is worthy of his hire.
For the want of worthy men they made my father alcade.
If i am virtuous and worthy, for whom should i not maintain a proper concern?
The is worthy of sweets, who has tasted bitters.
Every laborer is worthy of his hire.
I would I had as meikle pepper as he counts himself worthy Mice dirt.
To keep one's tongue is worthy of praise.
The ocean gives and sustain life to the worthy.
A worthy man is still worthy even penniless, a donkey is a donkey even if he is finely saddled.
A dog is worthy of his food.
The laborer is worthy of his hire.
The labourer is worthy of his hire.
The genuine friend, who is affected with the joys and sorrows of another, is a medicinal cordial, the sanctuary of the heart, the delight of the eyes, and worthy of confidence.
Expect trust from a dog but not from a woman.
A woman is like mahogany: the older she is, the better she is.
The most dangerous thing a man needs is woman.
A woman told me that a woman told her.
A lady is a woman who makes it easy for a man to be a gentleman.
A man chases a woman until she catches him.
If the man lets a woman know what he has got in his saving box, she will marry him for his money.
The spouse of a woman is a man, the spouse of a man is his livelihood.
Your woman should be in the house or in the grave.
He is a fool who marries an old woman without teeth.
A woman prefers a man without money to money without a man.
When your drunk the old woman tastes like a virgin..
The fat woman gives the sweetest ride.
You must judge a woman by the taste of her soup.
An infertile woman gets a lot of visitors.
If a woman sees a stick for beating her rival, she will throw it away in the woods.
With wealth one wins a woman.
A woman who offers sex to everyone will get kicked by everyone.
Never marry a woman who has bigger feet than you.
If a young woman says no to marriage just wait until her breasts sag.
Better to kiss an ugly woman than to lick yourself.
The folly of a man is not broadcast like that of a woman.
A educated woman finds few suitors.
Hell has no fury like a woman scorned.
A woman is like the moon-some nights it is silver others gold.
If a woman hears that something unusual is going on in heaven, she would find a ladder to go and look.
The dowry that a woman brings is like a bell; every time she passes by she hits you with the clapper.
The only sword that never rests is the tongue of a woman.
A woman without is she who has neither pipe nor child.
A dishonest woman can't be kept in and an honest woman won't.
The secret of an old woman scolding.
A house without a woman is like a fire without a bucket.
A coquettish woman is like a shadow -- as you chase her she runs away, and if you run away, she chases after you.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years; the slave of a woman dies in six months.
Woman, wind, and luck soon change.
No woman is ugly if she is well dressed.
The devil can swallow a woman but he can't digest her.
A man without a woman is only half a man.
War is to a man what bed is to a woman.
There are three uncertainties: woman, wind, and wealth.
When a woman laughs an experienced man will know how much it will cost him.
A house without a woman is the devil's own lodging.
A beautiful woman belongs to everyone; an ugly one is yours alone.
Water, smoke, and a vicious woman, drive men out of the house.
When woman reigns the devil governs.
Woman was born three days earlier than the devil.
Man is the head and woman is the crown upon it.
Beautiful woman, beautiful trouble.
A man without a woman is a tree without leaves and branches.
The boat follows the helm, the woman follows her husband.
A woman is as old as she wishes to tell you.
A woman is at her strongest when she faints.
A woman who likes to wash will find water.
The woman had no problems so she bought some pigs.
Let us look for the woman.
The beauty of the man is in his intelligence and the intelligence of the woman is in her beauty.
A man possesses beauty in his quality and a woman possesses quality in her beauty.
Only believe a woman one day later.
The house does not rest upon the ground, but upon a woman.
The most desirable woman is always the one who belongs to someone else.
He who longs too much for a child will marry a pregnant woman.
An unmarried woman is not honored, even if she has 10 brothers.
When a woman is not singing, she is not working much either.
The woman who does not covet the possessions of her husband is in love with another man.
Divorce a young woman and you make another man happy.
A wise woman has much to say and yet remains silent.
Instruct a man, you instruct an individual. Instruct a woman, you instruct a nation.
No woman can make a wise man out of a fool, but every woman can change a wise man into a fool.
If there is any profit in partnership, two will share a woman.
The anger of a woman is mighty and the devil's trickery weak.
The bald woman boasts of her sister's hair.
A fat woman warms even the coldest the night.
A woman without teeth shall be left to the lions.
He who listened to the woman suffered famine at harvest time.
Every woman beautiful till she speaks.
A woman is attractive when she is somebody else's wife.
Call a woman a harlot and you make her one.
If you lie down with a man, you may rise up as a woman.
Never trust a woman, even if she has borne you seven children.
A woman has many mouths.
Look for a thrifty woman -- even though it may cost you a pair of shoes.
The tongue of woman is her sword, which never rusts.
If a woman gets rich she changes into a man.
A woman is like a rat: even if it grows up in your house, it steals from you.
Even if the old woman has no teeth, her tiger nuts remain in her own bag.
The woman who tells her age is either too young to have anything to lose or too old to have anything to gain.
Sleep with a woman and she will make sure you wake up.
The woman who takes a wolf for a husband is always looking into the wood.
The beauty of a woman becomes useless if there is no one to admire it.
The rich worry over their money, the poor over their bread.
Don't worry if you borrow, but worry if you lend.
Do good and don't worry to whom.
If the full moon loves you, why worry about the stars?
A real friend takes the hand of his friend in overwhelming worry and fire.
It is not work that kills, but worry.
If you keep your head and heart going in the right direction you don't have to worry about your feet.
Sweep the dirt from in front of your own door, and don't worry about your neighbour's.
Living in worry invites death in a hurry.
Who rids himself of his own freedom, always finds himself with worry and pain.
If there be no remedy, why worry?
Don't worry if people call you ordinary - only if you are ordinary.
Loans and debts make worry and frets.
When we have nothing to worry about we are not doing much, and not doing much may supply us with plenty of future worries.
If you know his father and grandfather, don't worry about his son.
In a family if you have somebody who is troublesome it's the family members who are worried than the troublesome member.
If you haven't done anything evil then you shouldn't be worried about devils knocking on your door.
Worry is like a rocking chair it swings you back and forth and it takes you nowhere.
People worry, and God smiles.
Two Wolves may worry ane Sheep.
Kings and bears aft worry their keepers.
Don't worry about the weather or the government.
When you want to serve your friend, you can't worry about your belongings.
It is worms which destroy a tree, it is worry which destroys a man.
Don't worry, be happy.
One who has control over his pants, hand and mouth has nothing to worry about.
Men should worry about fame just as pigs about being fat.
It is not work that kills, but worry.
Many dogs may easily worry one hare.
The horse should worry, he has a big head.
The most beautiful fig may contain a worm.
The early bird catches the worm.
When the earth is hot, the worm stays in the ground.
The worm that gnaws on the bean is the one inside the bean.
You play with a snake and call it a worm.
The early bird gets the worm.
The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
It's the early bird that gets the worm.
A great man will not trample on a worm, nor sneak to an emperor.
Every worm to his taste.
With money you are a dragon; with no money, a worm.
With money, a dragon -- without it, a worm.
A worm cannot kill a fly.
The worm that exposes itself on the ground is waiting for a lucky bird to devour it.
When the glow worm lights her lamp, the air is always very damp.
What's the good of a fair apple if it has a worm in its heart?
The early bird catches the worm.
The early bird may catch the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
Even a worm will turn.
Even a worm will turn.
The early bird catches the worm.
The worm grazes where it's born.
The early bird catches the early worm.
Sorrow is to the soul what the worm is to wood.
The early bird catches the first worm.
Even a worm will turn.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
Early bird gets the worm.
The early bird catches the worm.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
The early bird catches the worm.
She who is pregnant, is pregnant-even though she wrap herself in an 'mkaja'.
It's as difficult to win love as to wrap salt in pine needles.
If you want some lies to be believed wrap them up in truths.
Wrapped within rags might be gold.
That which is said at the table should be wrapped up in the tablecloth.
As a child, is a man wrapped in his mother's womb; as an adult, in tradition; comes death, and he is wrapped in earth.
By his own hand he wrapped the snake around his neck.
Don't use oiled paper to wrap up fire.
Paper can't wrap up a fire.
Women will believe any lie that is wrapped in praise.
Women believe the strangest of lies as long as they are wrapped up in praise.
Wrath often consumes what God gives husbands.
Wrath often consumes what goodness husbands.
A soft answer calms the wrath.
Hastiness is the beginning of wrath, and its end repentance.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
A soft answer turns away wrath.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
Wrath begins in madness and ends in repentance.
The end of wrath is the beginning of repentance.
A brother's wrath is a devil's wrath.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
The wrath of brothers is the wrath of devils.
Give assistance, and receive thanks lighter than a feather: injure a man, and his wrath will be like lead.
If women were really good, God would be married.
Don't let women who attract attention walk behind you.
He who doesn't like chattering women must stay a bachelor.
The hunt is like a dance for men, for the women the dance is the hunt.
Women are stronger than men, they do not die of wisdom.
Women do not drink liquor, but it disappears when they are present.
Women are just like cats -- they always land on their feet.
Women and glasses are always in danger.
Women are always better the following year.
Women always speak the truth, but not the whole truth.
Plant rice when the ground is ready; pursue women when you feel passion.
Women are like raindrops: some fall on palaces, others on ricefields.
Truth is what women do not tell.
Men for tea, women for talk.
All women are good Lutherans - they would rather preach than hear mass.
Lovely women, lovely quarrels.
Pride and dignity would belong to women if only men would leave them alone.
Women have no court.
Women and glass are always in danger.
Keep women far away from song, because it is a summons to adultery.
Where two women rule a hearth-fire, the thatch may burn with the sparks flying.
All women are alike when the lamp is out.
All married women are not wives.
Because of their figure, vain women stay cold.
Beware of women with beards and men without beards.
There are no greater prudes than those women who have their own dirty secrets to hide.
Old men, when they marry young women, make much of death.
Even the one-eyed man winks to women.
If someone says "there is a wedding ceremony in the clouds,” then the women would soon arrive with their ladders.
The men are the wool of the tribe, but the women are the ones who weave the pattern.
When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them.
Women are as wavering as the wind.
Women are necessary evils.
Women are as fickle as April weather.
Women, fortune, and gold, favor fools.
Hares are caught with hounds, fools with praise, and women with gold.
Put the light out, and all women are alike.
Wine and women make fools of everybody.
Women and wine, game and deceit, Make the wealth small and the wants great.
Women are never at a loss for words.
Women are shy and shame prevents them from refusing a man.
Money tempts women, women tempt men.
Women are supernumerary when present, and missed when absent.
A market is three women and a goose.
Women, priests, and poultry, never have enough.
In men every mortal sin is venial, in women every venial sin is mortal.
Men are as old as they feel, women as old as they look.
Men are as old as they fell, and women as they look.
Men make wealth, and women preserve it.
Three women and a goose make a market.
Women and hens are lost by too much gadding.
Women are wise impromptu, fools on reflection.
Women naturally deceive, weep and spin.
Wars are caused by women and priests.
Men and women sleep on the same pillow, but they have different dreams.
If women were not vain, men could teach them how to be.
Women have long skirts and short minds.
The looking glass is the enemy of ugly women.
If God didn't like beautiful women, he wouldn't have made them.
Many women, many words.
God created women and women created the hearth.
At night all women are alike.
Seven women in their right senses are surpassed by a mad man.
Women and cats in the house, men and dogs in the street.
Women, problems.
March sun ages women.
Who approaches women penniless will be told: get lost.
Donkeys and women, beat them with a stick, to keep them at task.
The word "enough” does not exist for water, fire, and women.
If you want to understand men, study women.
There are no women or horses without shortcomings.
Away with grieving, only fit for women.
Men fear danger, women only the sight of it.
Onions, smoke and women bring tears to your eyes.
Women have no chief.
When sleeping women wake, mountains move.
The one who is looking for a wife doesn't speak contemptuously of women.
The hump of the ox that has grown old must be eaten by women.
Men and women are never placed too far apart to be near.
When women increase in wealth, they are silent. But when they fall into trouble, the whole world gets to know.
Women are as beautiful as flowers when they are forty years old.
Women never praise without gossiping.
The spirit of women is made of quicksilver; their heart of wax.
Women and fools never forgive.
Music and women should not be dated.
Women are like books: too much gilding makes men suspicious that the binding is the most important part.
When the candles are all out, all women are fair.
Men build houses; women build homes.
The saint has no believers unless he works miracles.
Works, and not words, are the proofs of love.
Everyone is the son of his own works.
If he works for you, you work for him.
Hell is full of good meanings, but heaven is full of good works.
Who works achieves and who sows reaps.
Honesty maketh rich, but she works slowly.
The Sluggard works twice, the niggard pays twice.
A broken hand works, but not a broken heart.
He who works as a slave, eats as a king.
He who works by himself does the work of three people.
A cask of wine works more miracles than a church full of saints.
Don't believe in the saint unless he works miracles.
Every excuse is good, if it works.
The way one eats is the way one works.
If you want to give a sick man medicine, let him first be really ill -- so that he can see how well the medicine works.
Who works hard will feel no hunger.
Who works hard alone will gobble alone.
He who speaks too much works too little.
A system that works is worth golden.
Works like the train toilet.
Cream doesn't rise to the top, it works its way up.
Iron that works does not rust.
Every man is the son of his own works.
The power of the world always works in circles.
He who works has much; he who saves, still more.
A kick works as a treatment to a hunch backed person.
A friend works in the light of the sun, an enemy in the dark.
There's two theories to arguing with a man/woman. Neither one works.
The way one eats is the way one works.
The great scholar forgets about fame, the average scholar works for it, and the unworthy scholar steals it.
Your mind is like a parachute; it only works when it's open.
Friendship is an empty word if it only works one way.
From beavers, bees should learn to mend their ways. A bee works; a beaver works and plays.
He who works begins well; he who economises ends better.
Faith without works is dead.
The angry hammer works off his fury on the steel.
As a man eats, so he works.
Love and faith are seen in works.
A lazy man works twice.
When the businessmen sleep, the ad works.
Changing of works is lighting of hearts.
When cicadas sing, the swineherd weeps and works.
Choose him for a friend who incites you to good works.
He who sows the seed of discord works in the devil's barn.
Ready money works great cures.
Dung is no saint, but where it falls it works miracles.
Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe. Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for its living, And a child that's born of the Sabbath day Is fair and wise and good and gay.
The hand works, the mouth (is allowed to) chew.
The lazy man is jealous of the one who works and succeeds.
If he works for you, you work for him.
Perseverance performs greater works than strength.
The saint who works no miracles isn't glorified.
When cicadas sing, the swineherd weeps and works. When frogs sing, the swineherd yawns.
Works are harder than words.
There is meikle between word and deed.
An arrow can be pulled out of a wound, but a hurtful word stays forever in your heart.
A word out of season may mar a whole lifetime.
One kind word can warm winter months.
A word spoken is past recalling.
Take a big bite, don't say a big word.
The word of a woman is a bundle of water.
A man says his word to the face.
A kind word never broke anyone's mouth.
A gentle word opens an iron gate.
A word about to be spoken is like a stone that is ready to be thrown.
One gentle word opens a gate of iron.
He who breaks his word shall through his word be broken.
A bad wound heals, but a bad word doesn't.
No word is ill spoken, that is not ill taken.
Knowing just one word of wisdom is like knowing a hundred ordinary words.
A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return.
An honest man's word is his bond.
A spoken word is not a sparrow. Once it flies out, you can't catch it.
You cannot throw a word out of a song.
A friendly word is like a spring day.
A true word needs no oath.
The word of a powerful man is the truth.
Spread the word of a psalm and it becomes a popular song.
You can pull back your leg, but not your committed word.
Take the bull by the horns and the man at his word.
As we didn't say a word, he thought he could do anything he liked.
Jump over a log but not over your neighbor's word.
The bull should be taken by the horns, a man at his word.
Every word has three definitions and three interpretations.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring, a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
A word to the wise is sufficient.
If you speak the word it shall own you, and if you don't you shall own it.
What harm is there in a good word? It costs nothing.
How many daily read the Word, and yet from vice are not deterred.
Who takes an eel by the tail or a woman by her word, grasp as he will, holds nothing fast.
A good word never broke a tooth.
A Word makes no hole, a pinch tears no underskirt.
He who heeds the first word of his wife must listen forever to the second.
Whatever kind of word thou speakest, the like shalt thou bear.
Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise.
A word and a blow.
A word and a stone once let go cannot be recalled.
One good word puts out the flames better than a bucket of water.
A good word quenches more than a cauldron of water.
An honest man's word is as good as the king's.
Who takes an eel by the tail and a woman at her word, may say he holds nothing.
Even the fool says a wise word sometimes.
Many a true word in spoken in jest.
Among men of honour a word is a bond.
Not every word requires an answer.
One good word quenches more heat than a bucket of water.
A promise is a nice word, if kept then it is all right.
A kind word warms a man through three winters.
It is one word of advice that one needs to give to a wise man, and that word keeps multiplying in his mind.
The best word is the unspoken word.
In the word is life, in the word is death.
The word "enough” does not exist for water, fire, and women.
A friendly word is better than a heavy cake.
With a friendly word you get farther than with a club.
The walking-stick reaches many lands, the word many more.
From the word of an elder is derived a bone.
Take a horse by his bridle and a man by his word.
A word is enough to the wise.
Half a word to the wise is enough.
From word to deed is a great space.
‘twixt the word and the deed there's a long step.
A spoken word is like a sparrow that once has flown away, cannot be caught again.
A word of kindness is better than a bottle of vodka.
Take a man at his word, an ox by the horns.
His word is as good as a tied knot.
Word is not a sparrow: flies out, can't catch it.
You can't keep a word of thanks in your pocket.
An englishman's word is his bond.
A good word extinguishes more than a pailful of water.
A word and a stone let go cannot be recalled.
A word and a stone once launched cannot be recalled.
A word from the mouth, a stone from a sling.
A man that breaks his word, bids others be false to him.
He who carries the word "no” with him will never be poor even when he is old.
An angry word is like striking with a knife.
No klingon ever breaks his word.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring; a cut may heal but the cut of the tongue does not.
Salt comes from north, gold from south and silver from the land of Whites, but the Word of God, the famous things, histories and fairy tales, we only find them in Timbuktu.
A well educated man always has a kind word to say about the place where he spends the night.
The poison for a word is a word.
A man's word is his honor.
If you can give me no ointment for my wound, can you help me by not rubbing salt in?
An old wound will not go away.
A tear in the eye is a wound in the heart.
His own wound is what everyone feels soonest.
No hero without a wound.
A bad wound heals, but a bad word doesn't.
Unbending the bow does not heal the wound.
A person with a wound on his head keeps touching it.
He laughs at scar who has received no wound.
The wound that bleedeth inwardly is the most dangerous.
A wound foreseen paint the less.
He that would heal a wound must not handle it.
The tender surgeon makes the wound gangrene.
It is easy to inflict a wound, but difficult to heal it.
A bad wound may heal, but a bad name will kill.
A knife wound heals; a wound caused by words does not.
The wound heals, the scar remains.
As the wound inflames the finger, so the thought inflames the mind.
Are you a dugong, you cannot bear a wound?.
The wound caused by a sword can eventually be healed; the hurt resulted from vicious remarks can never be undone.
A wound will heal. Talk won't.
A fly that falls on your wound is more important.
You cannot cure a wound by striking it gently.
A bad wound deserves strong medicine.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than that which is given by the sword.
Despise not a small wound, a poor kinsman, or an humble enemy.
Reconciled friendship is like a badly healed wound.
If you cannot heal the wound, do not tear it open.
A wound never heals so well that the scar cannot be seen.
When the wound is healed the pain is forgotten.
He laughs at scars who never felt a wound.
Slander is more deadly than weapons; weapons wound from close range, slander hurts from a distance.
Even if the wound is healed, the scar of it remains.
Unstringing the bow does not cure the wound.
A knife-wound heals, but a tongue wound festers.
All the hours wound you, the last one kills.
Re-open not a wound once healed.
A merciful barber-surgeon gives the wound gangrene.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than sword.
Не jests at scars that never felt a wound.
Without wood the fire would die.
One piece of wood will not make a fire.
When wood breaks it can be repaired, but ivory breaks forever.
In the house of a blacksmith the ornaments are made of wood.
If there is a way into the wood there is also a way out of it.
The ass that trespasses on a stranger's premises will leave them laden with wood.
To set fire to the wood, you need the help of the wind.
Do not halloo till you are out of the wood.
Strong wood is worth more than painted wood.
When you take a knife away from a child, give him a piece of wood instead.
When you get older you keep warm with the wood you gathered as a youth.
The dead know the price of wood.
Do not measure up the wood before the tree is cut down.
A forest would want to be burned by its own wood.
Old love and wood will burn as soon as they get the chance.
Better to struggle with a sick jackass than carry the wood by yourself.
Chop wood, carry water.
The human heart is neither of stone nor wood.
Rotten wood cannot be carved.
The woman who takes a wolf for a husband is always looking into the wood.
The wood is burnt, but the ashes are a nuisance.
Don't cry till you are out of the wood.
Knock on wood.
It is not for my own sake, said the fox, "that I say there is a good goose-green in the wood."
Misfortune, wood, and hair, grow throughout the year.
Crooked wood burns quite as well as straight.
The man in the moon stole the wood.
He that peeps into every bush will hardly get into the wood.
He that picks up all sorts of wood, soon gets an armful.
If the wolf had stayed in the wood there would have been no hue and cry after him.
When the ass was invited to the wedding feast he said, "They need more wood and water."
Shavings fly where wood is being chopped.
When the tree is down, everyone runs to it with a hatchet to cut wood.
Better be a bird of the wood than a bird in the cage.
Who is in fear of every leaf must not go into the wood.
Lay on more wood; ashes give money.
Willows are weak, yet serve to bind bigger wood.
From the same wood you can make a cross or a club.
In a fire, both green and dry wood burn.
Wood can only be split with a wedge that is cut from its own tree.
Easy to change young wood shape than the old one.
If you are going into the wood -- don't leave your axe at home.
Who is a piece of stick in youth will be a block of wood in old age.
The wood is the poor man's coat.
Every wood has its own smoke.
If you call a piece of wood ‘child', you can never use it to light fire since it has become so precious.
A termite grows up in dry wood, and yet comes to maturity.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood.
Little wood, much fruit.
A young wife, new bread, and green wood devastate a house.
He who is afraid of the leaves must not go into the wood.
Many enter the wood without an axe.
Better a bed of wood than a bier of gold.
When wood is chopped, woodchips will fly.
If envy would burn, there would be no need for wood.
The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood.
One rind is enough to tie a thousand pieces of wood.
A single log of wood does not burn even in an oven.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
Yesterday is ashes; tomorrow wood. Only today does the fire burn brightly.
The clog and amida are both from the same piece of wood.
A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood.
Every kind of wood is grey when they are reduced to ashes.
Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight.
The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
It is a poor wood that has never a withered bough in it.
While the dogs yelp, the hare flies to the wood.
Not every wood will make wooden shoes.
Dry wood makes a quick fire.
He will never get into the wood who starts at every bush.
Don't cry hurra! till your are over the hedge (till you are out of the wood).
The wood has ears, the field has eyes.
You will find enough of brushna in every wood to burn it.
The wood will renew the foliage it sheds.
Willows are weak but they bind other wood.
Fire with seasoned wood and work with flexible people are easy.
Young wood makes a hot fire.
Both the cross and the gallows are made of wood.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood.
There are more ways to the wood than one.
An iron ring made of wood.
He cannot see the wood for the trees.
He was carved of hard wood.
He that fears leaves, let him not go into the wood.
Like wood, like arrow.
He who fears every bush, comes late to the wood.
Anes wood, never wise, ay the worse.
Dogs understand each other by their barking, and men by their words.
Cold tea and cold rice are tolerable; cold looks and cold words aren't.
Where there is a glut of words, there is a dearth of intelligence.
The words of the elders do not lock all the doors, they leave the right door open.
Words are silver, silence is gold.
A man throws stones not words.
A man with a sense of humor is never at a loss for words or action.
Lend a false ear to false words.
One shares food not words.
A person stands next to a shade not next to words.
Do not be wise in words – be wise in deeds.
Do not use words that are too big for your mouth.
Great events may stem from words of no importance.
Buffaloes are held by ropes, man by his words.
Words are like spears: once they leave your lips they can never come back.
Words will not pollute the soup.
Too many words blacken your ears.
Friendship is not born of words alone.
Words are good when works follow.
These words won't become a loose skirt for Fati.
Children pick up words, as pigeons peas, and utter them again as God shall please.
Under fair words beware of fraud.
Not all words require an answer.
Words are mere bubbles of water; deeds are drops of gold.
Cold hearts can find warm words.
Knowing just one word of wisdom is like knowing a hundred ordinary words.
Words have no wings but they can fly many thousands of miles.
Words in mouth, no load upon head.
Words die and men keep on living.
Enter alcohol, exit words.
Nice words are free, so choose ones that please another's ears.
Big words won't split ones mouth.
With a walking-stick you reach many lands; you reach many more with words.
Evil words corrupt good manners.
Truth does not need many words.
A round egg can be made square according to how you cut it; words would be harsh according to how you speak them.
The best shortage is a shortage of words.
Words of the mouth are like a stone in a sling.
Words and feathers are carried away by the wind.
Works, and not words, are the proofs of love.
A man with two ears can be supported by two words.
Silence is more than just a lack of words.
Words go further than bullets.
Words are like newly hatched eggs: they already have wings.
One who is not moved by words is not moved by the stick.
Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bone.
It is worse to be wounded by words than a sword.
A healthy ear can stand hearing sick words.
Quarrels end, but words once spoken never die.
Words are dwarfs, deeds are giants.
Many words do not fill a basket .
If words fail no others will avail.
You take a bull by the horns and a man by his words.
Many words do not fill a basket.
With tender words you have less luck with a woman than with jewels.
Not all brave words become deeds.
Mouth is the home of words.
Words alone wont break bones.
Pleasent words will draw the snake from its hole.
Spend words as efficiently as money.
An old man's mouth produces a bad smell but the words that come out of it are sweet.
The words you say to tell the truth are as important as the decision to be truthful.
The weaker the argument, the stronger the words.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
Words are but wind, but blows unkind.
Words and feathers the wind carries away.
Truth needs not the ornament of many words.
If words could only speak, they'd mean even less.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Hard words break no bones.
The smarter you get the fewer words you'd say.
Wisdom consists of ten parts -- nine parts of silence and one part with few words.
Words of wisdom comes out of simple people mouths.
Kind words don't wear out the tongue.
Fair words don't fill the pocket.
Poor people's words go many to a sack-full.
Words don't will the sack.
Words often do more than blows.
More is done with words than with hands.
Of words and feathers, it takes many to make a pound.
Women are never at a loss for words.
When wrathful words arise a closed mouth is soothing.
Soft words butter no turnips.
Soft words butter no parsnips, but they won't harden the heart of the cabbage either.
F air words never fed a friar.
Deeds are fruits, words are only leaves.
If deeds are wanting, all words appear mere vanity and emptiness.
Work is twice done by the man in a hurry.
Many hands make light work.
Hard work is the right hand of fate.
He who does not work, must not eat.
A woman's work is never done.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
I have two masters -- God and the devil; I work for the devil until lunch then I follow the Lord.
When mosquitoes work, they bite and then they sing.
Work is the medicine for poverty.
Two thirds of the work is the semblance.
Children raised, doubled work.
At the end of the work you may judge of the workmen.
It is hard work to be the mother of many pigs.
A glorious past is the work of a glorious man.
While the sun is still up, let people work that the earth may live.
Hunger, work, and sweat are the best herbs.
He who cannot work out his salvation by heart will not do it by book.
You cannot pull a fish out of the pond without work.
Don't leave today's work for tomorrow.
No one knows for whom they work.
Pray indeed, but get to work.
The lazy work twice as much.
A stupid act entails doing the work twice over.
You are beautiful; but learn to work, for you cannot eat your beauty.
The king inherits a country - the people only hard work.
Work and you will be strong; sit and you will stink.
The eye of a master does more work than both his hands.
The lazybones must work twice.
The hand suffers at work, but the mouth still must eat.
It takes sweat to work on things, but it only takes saliva to criticize things.
Work like an ant and you'll eat sugar.
Work is good provided you do not forget to live.
Whenever I work hard for other people, I always sleep on an empty stomach.
If ill luck were cheese, dairy-women would go wanting work.
Not a long day, but a good heart, rids work.
Work the clay while it is still wet.
If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work.
If he works for you, you work for him.
What people get by hard work they don't get for their neighbours.
A broken hand can work but a broken heart can't.
It is not work that kills, but worry.
He who starts his work early enough is neither hit by the severe sun heat nor the burning sand.
You must judge a man by the work of his hands.
Work like a slave and eat like a gentleman.
The wicked work harder to preach hell than the righteous do to get to heaven.
Don't put robbers to work in a bank.
Many hands make light work.
One doctor makes work for another.
All work and no play makes Jack filthy rich.
Work for nought makes folks dead lazy.
work for engagement of your daughter, but don't work for engagement of your son.
When every one minds his own business the work is done.
Work makes free.
He is a bad workman who cannot talk of work.
Priestly knaves sweat hard at their meat, but never at work get into a heat.
Many hands make quick work.
A woman's work is never done.
It is harder work getting to hell than to heaven.
Pray as though no work could help, and work as though no prayer could help.
The will gives the work its name.
The shortcut to food but the long way to work.
A good beginning is half the work.
All work is as seed sown; it grows and spreads, and sows itself anew.
Raised children, doubled work.
Only people who work make mistakes.
Work expands so as to fill the time available.
If you give orders and leave, the work won't get done.
What's everybody's work is nobody's work.
A doctor will take care of the rich man; the poor man is cured with work.
Even a clock that does not work is right twice a day.
Without work there won't be any bread in your mouth.
Better than the ignorant are those who read books; better still are those who retain what they read; even better are those who understand it; the best of all are those who go to work.
Life is not a continuum of pleasant choices, but of inevitable problems that call for strength, determination, and hard work.
He who works by himself does the work of three people.
He who would rest must work.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
If you would have your work ill done, pay beforehand.
There are no cakes without work.
If my neighbor is happy, my own work will go easier, too.
Work is burning down to his nail.
For good work time is needed.
A hasty work is seldom good.
When the head does not work, the legs suffer.
It is better to work in your own land than to count your money abroad.
The weather vane will not work without wind.
It is easier to give orders than to work.
If work were good for you, the rich would leave none for the poor.
Work is the source of all good.
If a rich man dies, all the world is moved; if a poor man dies, nobody knows it.
A lie travels round the world while truth is putting her boots on.
A beggar will always be a beggar even if they give him the whole world as a gift.
Whatever accomplishment you boast of in the world, there is someone better than you.
A lie can be halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on.
A man in this world without learning is as a beast of the field.
If charity cost nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists.
When I am dead the world can be an ocean or a dried up ditch.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone.
He who has not traveled thinks that his mother is the best cook in the world.
In the entire world, things are two and two.
To the patient man will come all the riches of the world.
In the world all things are two and two.
The world is a journey, the afterworld is home.
When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other.
Before preparing to improve the world, first look around your own home three times.
Money makes the world go round.
The world is a pot, man but a spoon in it.
God is not without sins: He created the world.
The night hides a world, but reveals a universe.
If the teacher be corrupt, the world will be corrupt.
The world is a rose: smell it and pass it on to your friends.
Only two things matter in this world: a son and a daughter.
The world flatters the elephant and tramples on the ant.
To change the world we must first change ourselves.
When you die, you rejoice, and the world cries.
Those who have saved one life have saved the entire world.
It is easier to put leather on the soles of one's feet than cover the world with leather.
There are no secrets in the world.
You don't really see the world if you only look through your own window.
The world is a good teacher, but it charges a huge fee.
Lenin's truth makes great strides all around the world.
With great learning, a horse, and money, you may travel the world.
A woman's honor consists in the good opinion the world has of her.
Every head is a world.
Nobody leaves this world alive.
No matter how much the world changes, cats will never lay eggs.
Love and let the world know, hate in silence.
This world is a harsh place, this world.
Our caravan is our family, and the world is our family.
The world of humans is divided by lines, but the mind knows no limits, the heart no barriers.
You only hear three voices in this world: the babbling of the stream, jewish law, and money.
The tongue is the worst piece of meat in the world.
In the world there is more madness than sanity.
Truth may walk through the world unarmed.
Nothing in this world is certain but death and next winter's snows.
The world goes as it will and not as you or I would want it.
No man can make another's destiny and all the wishing in the world will not make it so.
The world goes as men make it go; and men are free to make it go otherwise, if they have the courage.
There's only one pretty child in the world, and every mother has it.
He who is always right will never get round the world.
It is precisely the uncertainty of this world that makes life worth living.
One can stand still in a flowing stream, but not in a world of men.
Hope is the pillar of the world.
Before you plan to improve the world, look around your own house three times.
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.
As long as there are fools in the world, no one will be penniless.
What you see in yourself is what you see in the world.
The world is the traveller's inn.
The world lives on hope.
The world does not make promises to anybody.
It is better to be kind to our neighbors than to cross the world to offer incense to our ancestors.
Religion is the best armor in the world, but the worst cloak.
It takes all sorts to make a world.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
Where every man is master the world goes to wreck.
The world still he keeps at his staff's end that needs not to borrow and never will lend.
A man's first care should be to avoid the reproaches of his own heart, his next to escape the censures of the world.
He that has lost his credit is dead to the world.
One half of the world does not know how the other half lives.
The world likes to have night-owls, that it may have matter for wonder.
Whom fortune favors, the world favors.
Two things rule the world -- reward and punishment.
The rest of the world does not know what newlyweds know.
Better be out of the world than out of the fashion.
All the world loves a lover.
The liar will travel the world over, but chooses not to go back home.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice.
To the world wisdom is folly; to the wise the world is foolish.
Faith keeps the world going.
Who is blind? He who can see no other world. Who is dumb? He who can say nothing pleasant about his lot. Who is poor? He who is troubled with too many desires. Who is rich? He who is happy with his lot.
As day break, the glowworms say "We've lit up the world!”.
The world can be conquered with words, but not with drawn swords.
You can conquer the whole world with words, but not with drawn swords.
The world is governed with little brains.
The world belongs to the phlegmatic.
Of this world each man has as much as he takes.
Who has no shame all the world is his own.
Not to know is bad; not to wish to know is worse.
Not to know is bad, not to wish to know is worse.
An unsolicited guest is worse than a tatar.
Shame is worse than death.
It is worse to excuse than to offend.
A witch-wife and an evil is three-halfpence worse than the devil.
Bad is never good until worse happens.
He is bad that will not take advice, but he is a thousand times worse that takes every advice.
Go further and fare worse.
Chastise the good and he will mend, chastise the bad and he will grow worse.
There are some who see ill, and would like to see worse.
The obliging fool is worse than an enemy.
Take counsel before it goes ill, lest it go worse.
There's no worse struggle than one that never begins.
No fate is worse than a life without a love.
Everyone is as god made him and very often worse.
There's no worse deaf man than the man who doesn't want to listen.
There's nothing worse for an intelligent person than to put a fool beside him.
The soup would be none the worse for more meat.
Grief itches but scratching it makes it worse.
Fear the worse.
Instead of better, it got worse.
The more you stir dirt, the worse it stinks.
Praise makes a bad man worse.
It is an ill thing to be deceived, but worse to deceive.
A malignant sore throat is a danger; a malignant throat not sore is worse.
If you eat a live toad first thing in the morning, nothing worse will happen all day long.
Ill comes often on the back of worse.
The cure is worse than the disease.
The Spaniard is a bad servant but a worse master.
The worse the dun, the worst the paymaster.
From several possible events, the less worse happened.
Chastise the good man, he will grow better; chastise the bad, and he will grow worse.
There is no worse fruit than that which never ripens.
Hatred renewed is worse than at first.
He who begins ill finishes worse.
The remedy is often worse than the disease.
Where shall a man have a worse friend than he brings from home.
There is no worse joke than a true one.
You have married a beauty? So much the worse for you.
Bad habits are worse than rabies.
Habit is worse than rabies.
To follow everyone is wrong, to follow no one is worse.
There is no worse devil than a farmer who wants to be a gentleman.
He who does not love their national language is worse than a putrid fish.
Not much is worse than a troll.
The worse service, the better luck.
The better lawyer, the worse Christian.
Nothing so bad but it might have been worse.
Desire is worse then compulsion.
Simplicity is worse than thievery (crime).
Nothing is worse than waiting or chasing.
For better for worse they have married me.
There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring; a cut may heal but the cut of the tongue does not.
No one is worse, for knowing the worst of themselves.
The laziness of youths is worse than war.
When the mouth stumbles, it is worse than the foot.
There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country.
Too much is worse than too little.
Apprehension of evil is worse than the evil itself.
Bad actions lead to worse reactions.
Bad to do evil, but worse to boast about it.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
Sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease.
There is nothing better than a good woman and nothing worse than a bad one.
The worse the passage the more welcome the port.
His bark is worse than his bite.
Learning makes a good man better and a bad man worse.
No man has a worse friend than he brings from home.
My debtor is a worse payer even than I am.
An old fool is worse than a young simpleton.
To have a woman is bad; to lose her is worse.
The more you stir filth the worse it stinks.
An honest man is not the worse because a dog barks at him.
May the saddest day of your future be no worse than the happiest day of your past.
The more cowherds there are, the worse the cows are looked after.
Remorse is worse than a beating.
It is bad to have a servant, but worse to have a master.
It is worse to be sick in the soul than in body.
There is no worse robber than a bad book.
There is no worse thief than a bad book.
The fear of war is worse than war itself.
Ill in kine and worse in beeves.
There is no robber worse than a bad book.
Verbal fraud is worse than monetary fraud.
The more you add, the worse it gets.
Loose tongues are worse than wicked hands.
There is no law written for fools.
If men could see the epitaphs their friends write they would believe they had gotten into the wrong grave.
'tis written, "what's not your own, that let alone.”.
You cannot write in the chimney with charcoal.
Some will learn through pain and sorrow, others through joy and laughter, so it is written.
Whatever is written on the forehead is always seen.
That which is written by God is what is.
Better to write down something one time than to read something ten times.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at the present.
Write on one of the devil's horns, "Good angel,” and many will believe it.
The best memory is that which forgets nothing, but injuries. Write kindness in marble and write injuries in the dust.
Think much, speak little and write less.
The person who offends writes as if it was written on sand, and the person who is offended reads it as if it were written on marble.
You cannot write down a meaningful silence.
At birth your fate is written.
A good deed is written on snow.
It is written in sacred scripture: where grass is growing you don't need fertilizer.
What was written by a pen, cannot be taken out with an axe.
Write injuries in dust, But kindnesses in marble.
Silence was never written down.
It is better to write down something once than read it ten times.
He who can read and write has four eyes.
Write with the learned, but speak with the vulgar.
Insults must be written in sand and compliments carved in stone.
Write the bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece of marble.
What you give, is written in sand; what you take, with an iron hand.
Silence was never written down.
We shall write it in soot in the chimney.
Your soul to God, your body to dust, your property to your relatives, because thus it has been found written.
That which is written in heaven, comes to pass on earth.
That which is written, is meant to be read.
The first love letters are written with the eyes.
Marriages are written in heaven.
There is no law written for fools ( if it is written it's not read, if it is read it's not understood, if it is understood, in the wrong way).
Never advise anyone to go to war or to get married. Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present. He that has no children brings them up well.
A letter once written cannot be recalled.
The names of fools are always written on walls.
As to tastes, nothing is written.
What God has written, a witch doctor can not erase.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present.
A word written stays forever than hundred spoken work.
A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.
Every one's faults are not written in their foreheads.
If the best man's faults were written on his forehead, it would make him pull his hat over his eyes.
Everyone's faults are not written on their foreheads.
By writing you learn to write.
The spoken word vanishes, the written word remains. [Vox audita perit, litteras scripta manet.].
The worst ache is the present ache.
The worst devil is the one who prays.
The worst kind of poverty is to have many debts.
A person's worst enemy can't wish on him what he can think up himself.
Evildoers always think the worst of others.
A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are.
The tongue is the worst piece of meat in the world.
Religion is the best armor in the world, but the worst cloak.
The worse the dun, the worst the paymaster.
The worst pig eats the best acorn.
The worst blind is that who doesn't want to see.
The chamber-bell is the worst sound one have in his ears.
The worst pig often gets the best pear.
Expect the worst from your enemy so that you won't be disappointed.
The worst kind of dog is the one who does not want to bite.
February may be short but it's the worst month.
On the gallows, the first night is the worst.
Better the best of the worst than the worst of the best.
A shoemaker's wife and a smith's mare are always the worst shod.
If you think the worst, you won't be far wrong.
Most haste, worst speed.
He who is anxious to secure the best tends to get stuck with the worst of the rest.
Those who are choosy often pick the worst.
Even in the worst of times someone turns a profit.
An undecided man is the worst disaster of the village.
Gratitude is the least of virtues; ingratitude is the worst of vices.
One's best fortune, or, their worst is their spouse.
No one is worse, for knowing the worst of themselves.
Anguish is our worst advisor.
A man can endure the worst pain - of others.
The worst person doesn't lack some good deeds.
Action is worry's worst enemy.
Debt is the worst kind of poverty.
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
A mans worst enemies are often those of his own house.
A man's best fortune or his worst is a wife.
You may find the worst enemy or best friend in yourself.
We are usually the best men when in the worst health.
Doctors make the worst patients.
No worst pestilence than a familiar enemy.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
Ignorance is the worst acquaintance.
Own kin are the worst friends, said the fox, when he saw the foxy dogs after him.
Hope for the best and prepare for the worst.
Where the best wine grows, the worst is drunk.
The worst wheel creaks most.
The worst behaved students turn out to be the most pious preachers.
He who thinks the worst usually is right.
As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, the truest lover may turn into the worst enemy.
The worst wheel creaks most.
The common horse is worst shod.
The worst hog often gets the best pear.
The worst wheel of a cart creaks most.
Even when fire has done its very worst, one still has to resort to it.
The best of nursing may overcome the worst disease.
If it isn't wintry in January then expect the worst in February.
What a man thinks up for himself, his worst enemy couldn't wish for him.
Provide for the worst; the best can take care of itself.
The rich man who is stingy is the worst pauper.
When things are at the worst they begin to mend.
Gratitude is the least of virtues, but ingratitude the worst of vices.
The ass that is common property is always the worst saddled.
Pick and choose, and take the worst.
He who chooses takes the worst.
The worst ewe dungs in the milking-pail.
The worst of a lawsuit is that out of one there grow a hundred.
Servants make the worst masters.
The corruption of the best things makes the worst.
Alas for those that get the worst of it!
Let the worst come to the worst.
Where there is no grain, this is a sign of vengeance turned towards a city. Where there are no reeds, it is the worst of all poverty.
The little devils are the worst in hell, too.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
The worst of law is that one suit breeds twenty.
Gratitude ranks as the least of virtues, and the lack of gratitude is the worst of vices.
Every man is his own worst enemy.
The worst you can do to truth is to cloth it in lies, you can't undo it.
He that is worst may still hold the candle.
Provide for the worst, the best will save itself.
A priest that's made a pet of and a pig that's made a pet of are the two worst pets of all. However, all priests are different. And in our times some pigs are kept as pets.
The worst kind of person is one whose power of speech is greater than his power of thought.
What a man thinks up for himself, his worst enemy couldn't wish for him.
The smith's horse and the shoemakers children are worst shod.
The spoon maker's children have often the worst spoons.
The worst is not always certain but it's very likely.
Self -- love is the worst of all flattery.
The corruption of the best is the worst of all.
One hour of justice is worth seventy hours of prayer.
Bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Wisdom cannot be bought with money, yet it is worth the most.
One written word is worth a thousand pieces of gold.
A dressed up lie is worth more than a badly told truth.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
One volunteer is worth two pressed men.
A bird in the hand has more worth than two flying.
Anything worth doing is worth doing for money.
A bite from a loving mouth is worth more than a kiss from any other.
A friend is worth more than a brother.
A hair on the head is worth two on the brush.
An eagle's old age is worth a sparrow's youth.
The pleasure of finding something is worth more than what you find.
A good joke is a penny worth.
One moment is worth more than a thousand gold pieces.
An old spinster is not worth more than a un posted letter.
Strong wood is worth more than painted wood.
A single advantage is worth a thousand sorceries.
What's too hard for a man must be worth looking into.
Good advice once was worth a camel; now that it is free of charge, no one takes it.
An intelligent enemy is worth more than a stupid friend.
The man who has never experienced evil does not know the worth of what is good.
A bird in hand is worth ten in a tree.
You are worth as much as your purse.
The land where the stones know you is worth more than the land where the people know you.
A rich man who does not know himself is worth less than a poor man who does.
Half an hour in a spring evening is worth a thousand gold pieces.
It is precisely the uncertainty of this world that makes life worth living.
A worthy cause is worth pursuing to the end.
A single conversation across the table with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
To have saved one human life is worth more than to build a paGoda with seven stories.
Take a friend for what he does, a wife for what she has, and goods for what they are worth.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
A penny-weight of love is worth a pound of law.
A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft.
Contentment is worth more than riches.
A good meal is worth hanging for.
A dram of discretion is worth a pound of wisdom.
A story without an author is not worth listening to.
It's not worth a cuckoo-spit.
May you never forget what is worth remembering, or remember what is best forgotten.
A little of anything isn't worth a pin; but a wee bit of sense is worth a lot.
If you know what a dollar is worth, try to borrow it.
It's not worth undressing a saint to dress another one.
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.
One ducat before the trial is worth three afterwards.
A golden plate is worth nothing to me when my blood is spilled on it.
The ass does not know the worth of this tail till he has lost it.
A good mother is worth a hundred teachers.
What worth has beauty if it is not seen?
A donkey that carries me is worth more than a horse that kicks me.
One sturdy house is worth a hundred in ruins.
A shy woman is worth a city, a shy man is worth a goat.
A good friend is worth more than a bad brother.
He who has had no experience of evil cannot know the worth of what is good.
Not all the words that were ever uttered are worth weighing on golden scales.
A wife's advice is not worth much, but woe to the husband who refuses to take it.
A pound's worth of tears will not settle a penny's worth of debt.
A system that works is worth golden.
Your value is set by your worth.
A bird in the hand is worth ten in the bush.
A good deed is worth gold.
A pennyworth of mirth is worth a pound of sorrow.
A good horse is worth his fodder.
A beaten one is worth two unbeaten ones.
The lambskin is not worth the currying.
A single bad experience is worth a thousand threats.
A woman's tears are worth a lot, but cost little.
An ounce of mother is worth a pound of priests.
A peck of March dust is worth a king's ransom.
A lawsuit for a maravedi consumes a real's worth of paper.
An ounce of wit that's bought Is worth a pound that's taught.
An ounce of blood is worth more than a pound of friendship.
A little thing in hand is worth more than a great thing in prospect.
Pay what you owe and you will know what you are worth.
Worth makes the man and want of it the fellow.
What care is a friend worth? what handling can a chickling take?
Dignity and an empty sack is worth the sack.
A spur in the head is worth two in the heel.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of learning.
If a job's worth doing, it's worth doing well.
Kind words are worth much and they cost little.
A wild goose may be worth a hundred pieces of gold, but you first have to spend three pieces of gold to buy an arrow.
A Quarter of an hour is worth more than a thousand gold coins.
Read critically, and you will find each word worth a thousand ounces of gold.
A picture is worth ten thousand words.
If men could see the epitaphs their friends write they would believe they had gotten into the wrong grave.
If you are doing wrong, make sure you don't get fat from it.
When you are right no one remembers; when you are wrong no one forgets.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than a stone thrown at the wrong time.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than gold given at the wrong time.
There are a thousand paths to every wrong.
Something done at the wrong time should be regarded as not done.
If the inner mind is not deluded, the outer actions will not be wrong.
If your inner mind isn't deceived, your outer actions won't be wrong..
No matter how far you have gone on a wrong road, turn back.
By getting angry, one shows that she is wrong.
No snowflake ever falls in the wrong place.
Where there are many, nothing goes wrong.
When an oxhorn of a news man is sounded, something is wrong.
It is not wrong to go back for that which you have forgotten.
If thine enemy wrong thee, buy each of his children a drum.
When your neighbour is wrong you point a finger, but when you are wrong you hide.
People should not talk while they are eating or pepper may go down the wrong way.
If it's wrong to eat the devil, it's wrong to drink his broth.
The absent are always in the wrong.
No wrong without a remedy.
Suspicion is the sister of the wrong.
Revenge converts a little right into a great wrong.
A hundred years of wrong do not make an hour of right.
Keep well with your neighbors, whether right or wrong.
A man who holds good cards would never say if they were dealt wrong.
As you slide down the banister of life, may the splinters never point the wrong way.
A windy day is the wrong one for thatching.
One wrong submitted to, another follows.
He that is always right is always wrong.
He who does the wrong forgets it, but not he who receives it.
To follow everyone is wrong, to follow no one is worse.
When a man finds that he was wrong to have refused to eat, he should leave his anger and play a harp to call for harmony.
If your buttocks burn, you know you have done wrong.
There is no right way to do a wrong thing.
To forget a wrong is the best revenge.
He is always right who suspects that he is always wrong.
If you think the worst, you won't be far wrong.
Don't reply one wrong with another.
Since excuses were invented, no one is ever in the wrong.
Those who are absent are always wrong.
The absent are always in the wrong.
There's nothing wrong with charity... As long as it winds up in your pocket.
By getting angry, you show you are wrong.
If you do something wrong to me, I forgive you. But I know that someday God will make you hit the son of a chief on the head. Then the chief will punish you.
It is better to run back than run the wrong way.
No one is as angry as the person who is wrong.
The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong.
A wrong step by the leader is a warning for those following.
Who tells the truth is never wrong.
Where there are old people, nothing goes wrong.
One who talks to himself can not be wrong.Ie no one to correct him.
God and fairies can be wrong as well.
To guess is cheap, to guess wrong is expensive.
A good man gone wrong is usually a bad man found out.
Those who are absent are always wrong.
Do not look for wrong and evil.
If a man is right, he cannot be too radical; if wrong, he cannot be too conservative.
Speed will get you nowhere if you are headed in the wrong direction.
If something can go wrong, it will.
Many love to praise right and do wrong.
Who does nothing can do nothing wrong.
He who is absent is always in the wrong.
Revenge is new wrong.
Pity the man who does wrong and is poor as well.
Right or wrong, our house up to the roof.
A man's own opinion is never wrong.
The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong.
To do things wrong with best intentions is better than acting to the letter of the law with evil intentions.
To get out of the bed on the wrong side.
He puts on the right/wrong horse.
Better to return from half-way than to take a wrong road.
If more people say you're wrong, don't insist saying you're right.
People sometimes do all the wrong things for all the right reasons.
Wrong laws make short governance.
Who is reared at home fares wrong away from home.
Wrong cannot rest, nor ill deed stand.
Who fails to listen to his elders, will hang his knapsack in the wrong place.
Stand by your own whether right or wrong.
Darkness shows no wrong path to she who gets what she wants before dark.
The song that has no leader, goes wrong.
The shield turned the wrong way.
Protest long enough that you are right, and you will be wrong.
What is the use of running when we are on the wrong.
What is wrong to-day won't be right to-morrow.
He must indeed be a good master who never does wrong.
By dint of going wrong all will come right.
Never challenge a fool to do wrong.
