Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
No flying from fate.
One link broken, the whole chain is broken.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
Adversity is a great schoolmaster.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Never write what you dare not sign.
There’s many a slip ‘tween (== between) the cup and the lip.
As the tree falls, so shall it lie.
Fish begins to stink at the head.
A bargain is a bargain.
Look before you leap.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
It is a poor mouse that has only one hole.
Small rain lays great dust.
Greedy folk has long arms.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
What is worth doing at all is worth doing well.
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
Promise is debt.
Liars need good memories.
Don’t have thy cloak to make when it begins to rain.
Don’t look a gift horse in the mouth.
Pleasure has a sting in its tail.
Sweep before your own door.
He that lies down with dogs must rise up with fleas.
All is well that ends well.
To know everything is to know nothing.
By hook or by crook
Forewarned is forearmed.
He who hesitates is lost.
Crows do not pick crow’s eyes.
Patience is a plaster for all sores.
A good marksman may miss.
The pot calls the kettle black.
To beat the air.
Like cures like.
Out of the frying pan into the fire.
To make (to turn) the air blue.
A tattler is worse than a thief.
He is lifeless that is faultless.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
Muck and money go together.
All that glitters is not gold.
Dogs that put up many hares kill none.
Wait for the cat to jump.
Every mother thinks her own gosling is a swan.
You made your bed, now lie in it.
Make haste slowly.
Necessity knows no law.
A friend’s frown is better than a foe’s smile.
A honey tongue, a heart of gall.
To throw straws against the wind.
We shall see what we shall see.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
He is a good friend that speaks well of us behind our backs.
All promises are either broken or kept.
A sound mind in a sound body.
Between the devil and the deep (blue) sea
Neither here nor there.
Don’t trouble until trouble troubles you.
Much will have more.
Once bitten, twice shy.
Great cry and little wool.
The tailor makes the man.
Walls have ears.
He who says what he likes shall hear what he doesn’t like.
He that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
Fair without, foul (false) within.
As old as the hills.
Such carpenters, such chips.
To add fuel (oil) to the fire (flames).
To go for wool and come home shorn.
Two is a company, but three is none.
Enough is as good as a feast.
A good name is better than riches.
Every man to his taste.
If we can’t as we would, we must do as we can.
New brooms sweep clean.
First come, first served.
The scalded dog fears cold water.
When children stand quiet, they have done some harm.
As drunk as a lord.
The tongue of idle persons is never idle.
Respect yourself, or no one else will respect you.
Self-praise is no recommendation.
Better give a shilling than lend a half-crown.
Hard words break no bones.
The best fish swim near the bottom.
A shy cat makes a proud mouse.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
If you sell the cow, you sell her milk too.
He laughs best who laughs last.
Between two evils ’tis not worth choosing
The wind cannot be caught in a net.
If you cannot have the best, make the best of what you have.
Put not your hand between the bark and the tree.
Fools grow without watering.
A good face is a letter of recommendation.
That cock won’t fight.
All men can’t be first.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
Who has never tasted bitter, knows not what is sweet.
One man’s meat is another man’s poison.
Practise what you preach.
Better late than never.
Everyone’s faults are not written on their foreheads.
A black hen lays a white egg.
Waste not, want not.
None so blind as those who won’t see.
One swallow does not make a summer.
Like father, like son.
Live not to eat, but eat to live.
To eat the calf in the cow’s belly.
Plenty is no plague.
To wash one’s dirty linen in public.
No wisdom like silence.
A friend is never known till needed.
In the end, things will mend.
A miss is as good as a mile.
East or West? home is best.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
Well begun is half done.
A good anvil does not fear the hammer.
All lay load on the willing horse.
One fire drives out another.
Penny-wise and pound-foolish.
A thief knows a thief as a wolf knows a wolf.
Those who keep company with the wolf, will learn to howl.
He that seeks trouble never misses.
Six of one and half a dozen of the other.
Facts are stubborn things.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
So many countries, so many customs.
A light purse makes a heavy heart.
From bad to worse.
Ill-gotten gains never prosper.
After a storm comes a calm.
He that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He that has no money needs no purse.
Good health is above wealth.
After dinner sit (sleep) a while, and after supper walk a mile.
Nothing must be done hastily but the killing of fleas.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Still waters run deep.
Lookers-on see more than players.
If you want a thing well done, do it yourself.
Better untaught than ill-taught
A good Jack makes a good Jill.
Confession is the first step to repentance.
He is happy that thinks himself so.
No living man all things can.
Dog does not eat dog.
Time is money.
To be born with a silver spoon in one’s mouth.
Good words without deeds are rushes and reeds.
To draw water in a sieve.
Truth comes out of the mouths of babes and sucklings.
When pigs fly.
Speech is silver but silence is gold.
Caution is the parent of safety
To work with the left hand.
A little fire is quickly trodden out.
You cannot wash charcoal white.
Better die standing than live kneeling.
Go to bed with the lamb and rise with the lark.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
The exception proves the rule.
A Joke never gains an enemy but often loses a friend.
Praise is not pudding.
Each bird loves to hear himself sing.
To measure another man’s foot by one’s own last.
To teach the dog to bark.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
What is done cannot be undone.
It is a silly fish, that is caught twice with the same bait.
A drowning man will catch a straw.
It is the first step that costs.
A new broom sweeps clean.
He that will not when he may, when he will he shall have nay.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
Honour and profit lie not in one sack.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
No news (is) good news.
If ifs and ans were pots and pans…
Jackdaw in peacock’s feathers.
A word spoken is past recalling.
The work shows the workman.
Betwixt and between
Before you make a friend eat a bushel of salt with him.
Every miller draws water to his own mill.
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice.
One today is worth two tomorrow.
Four eyes see more (better) than two.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Keep a thing for seven years and you will find a use for it.
To make the cup run over.
All asses wag their ears.
He that is full of himself is very empty.
A blind man would be glad to see.
Fasting comes after feasting.
Politeness costs little (nothing), but yields much.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
Never offer to teach fish to swim.
Charity begins at home
Life is not all cakes and ale (beer and skittles).
What must be, must be.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
He that lives with cripples learns to limp.
Never do things by halves.
There is no fire without smoke.
It is easy to swim if another holds up your chin (head).
Eat at pleasure, drink with measure.
Two blacks do not make a white.
A drop in the bucket.
Head cook and bottle-washer.
Men may meet but mountains never.
The first blow is half the battle.
There’s no use crying over spilt milk.
It takes all sorts to make a world.
Give him an inch and he’ll take an ell.
After rain comes fair weather.
A good name is sooner lost than won.
A fault confessed is half-redressed.
He smells best that smells of nothing.
He that respects not is not respected.
The devil rebuking sin.
To strain at a gnat and swallow a camel.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
Little pigeons can carry great messages.
Marriages are made in heaven.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
Nothing is impossible to a willing heart.
Agues come on horseback but go away on foot.
Before one can say Jack Robinson.
A penny soul never came to twopence.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a bad supper.
A lazy sheep thinks its wool heavy.
To angle with a silver hook.
Let bygones be bygones.
Like a needle in a haystack.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
His money burns a hole in his pocket.
Birds of a feather flock together
Money often unmakes the men who make it.
Lord (God, Heaven) helps those (them) who help themselves.
Better the devil you know than the devil you don’t.
Better be alone than in bad company.
To put (set) the cart before the horse.
All is fish that comes to his net.
When angry, count a hundred.
As the tree, so the fruit.
Hawks will not pick hawks’ eyes.
Too much of a good thing is good for nothing.
A good dog deserves a good bone.
A good example is the best sermon.
Between the upper and nether millstone
Love in a cottage.
Counsel is no command.
Every white has its black, and every sweet its sour.
A silent fool is counted wise.
Easier said than done.
Silence gives consent.
He that has no children knows not what love is.
Time works wonders.
Between the cup and the lip a morsel may slip
Poverty is not a shame, but being ashamed of it is.
Tell that to the marines.
While the grass grows, the horse starves.
In every beginning think of the end.
You cannot judge a tree by its bark.
All sugar and honey.
The pitcher goes often to the well but is broken at last.
Drunkenness reveals what soberness conceals.
Like begets like.
Misfortunes tell us what fortune is.
Faults are thick whereas love is thin.
He is not fit to command others that cannot command himself.
Better to do well than to say well.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
He works best who knows his trade.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
Measure thrice and cut once.
No pains, no gains.
Soon ripe, soon rotten.
Gossiping and lying go hand in hand.
He knows how many beans make five.
Neither rhyme nor reason.
Live and let live.
A storm in a teacup.
To pour water into a sieve.
As innocent as a babe unborn.
To fiddle while Rome is burning.
He begins to die that quits his desires.
Cleanliness is next to godliness.
A wolf in sheep’s clothing.
He who is born a fool is never cured.
Pride goes before a fall.
There is more than one way to kill a cat.
Little things amuse little minds.
To make both ends meet.
Tarred with the same brush.
Never cast dirt into that fountain of which you have sometimes drunk.
A great fortune is a great slavery.
Great barkers are no biters.
All men can’t be masters.
An empty sack cannot stand upright.
A good beginning is half the battle.
Dot your i’s and cross your t’s.
Like master, like man.
In the evening one may praise the day.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
To fit like a glove.
To weep over an onion.
Dumb dogs are dangerous.
The furthest way about is the nearest way home.
He gives twice who gives in a trice.
The remedy is worse than the disease.
To go through fire and water (through thick and thin).
The morning sun never lasts a day.
All things are difficult before they are easy.
Needs must be when the devil drives.
Measure for measure.
Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion.
Rain at seven, fine at eleven.
The Dutch have taken Holland!
Take us as you find us.
What can’t be cured, must be endured.
The longest day has an end.
An ox is taken by the horns, and a man by the tongue.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Even reckoning makes long friends.
Like teacher, like pupil.
The face is the index of the mind.
Since Adam was a boy.
He who likes borrowing dislikes paying.
A creaking door hangs long on its hinges.
To kick against the pricks.
As the old cock crows, so does the young.
Fools and madmen speak the truth.
Velvet paws hide sharp claws.
The cat would eat fish and would not wet her paws.
Don’t cross the bridges before you come to them.
Things past cannot be recalled.
Virtue is its own reward.
Time is the great healer.
First, catch your hare.
Be slow to promise and quick to perform.
Hope is the poor man’s bread.
Every man has a fool in his sleeve.
A danger foreseen is half avoided.
As the fool thinks, so the bell clinks.
Every dark cloud has a silver lining.
Little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Love me, love my dog.
Money begets money.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
Never fry a fish till it’s caught.
That’s a horse of another colour.
Every man has his faults.
To flog a dead horse.
Be swift to hear, slow to speak.
A threatened blow is seldom given.
Nothing so bad, as not to be good for something.
When the pinch comes, you remember the old shoe.
To send (carry) owls to Athens.
To come away none the wiser.
There is no smoke without fire.
He who would catch fish must not mind getting wet.
It is an ill wind that blows nobody good.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
Follow the river and you’ll get to the sea.
Never quit a certainty for hope.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
A tree is known by its fruit.
Every dog is a lion at home.
Scratch my back and I’ll scratch yours.
Habit cures habit.
Name not a rope in his house that was hanged.
To cry with one eye and laugh with the other.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
He who would search for pearls must dive below.
Once is no rule (custom).
Time and tide wait for no man.
He that does you an ill turn will never forgive you.
Hungry bellies have no ears.
Like parents, like children.
An old dog barks not in vain.
To tell tales out of school.
Curses like chickens come home to roost.
Never try to prove what nobody doubts.
To hit the nail on the head.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
An evil chance seldom comes alone.
Claw me, and I will claw thee.
An unfortunate man would be drowned in a teacup.
Many words hurt more than swords.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
No garden without its weeds.
The best fish smell when they are three days old.
One good turn deserves another.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Blind men can judge no colours
A foul morn may turn to a fair day.
There is no rose without a thorn.
Everything comes to him who waits.
That which one least anticipates soonest comes to pass.
To take the bull by the horns.
Many a fine dish has nothing on it.
To take counsel of one’s pillow.
Too much knowledge makes the head bald.
Hatred is blind, as well as love.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
Divide and rule.
An ass loaded with gold climbs to the top of the castle.
A little body often harbours a great soul.
While there is life there is hope.
Stuff today and starve tomorrow.
A man can die but once.
Circumstances alter cases.
He that fears every bush must never go a-birding.
All are not saints that go to church.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Like mother, like daughter.
A wager is a fool’s argument.
What is got over the devil’s back is spent under his belly.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Custom is second nature.
The devil is not so black as he is painted.
Early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Every day is not Sunday.
Little pitchers have long ears.
Envy shoots at others and wounds herself.
Hunger finds no fault with cookery.
He that serves God for money will serve the devil for better wages.
To fish in troubled waters.
Children and fools must not play with edged tools.
A burden of one’s own choice is not felt.
He that comes first to the hill may sit where he will.
He who makes no mistakes makes nothing.
All doors open to courtesy.
Let well (enough) alone.
If you agree to carry the calf, they’ll make you carry the cow.
To have rats in the attic.
To come off with a whole skin.
Fools may sometimes speak to the purpose.
The cat shuts its eyes when stealing cream.
A company in distress makes trouble less.
The falling out of lovers is the renewing of love.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do (can be done) today.
Better be envied than pitied.
Scornful dogs will eat dirty puddings.
He that serves everybody is paid by nobody.
He that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
Choose an author as you choose a friend.
The higher the ape goes, the more he shows his tail.
“Almost” never killed a fly (was never hanged).
Cheek brings success.
An honest tale speeds best, being plainly told.
Every man has his hobby horse.
As well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb.
“Hamlet” without the Prince of Denmark.
To love somebody (something) as the devil loves holy water.
A curst cow has short horns.
Better a little fire to warm us than a great one to burn us.
The last straw breaks the camel’s back.
None so deaf as those that won’t hear.
A bad beginning makes a bad ending.
He that goes a borrowing, goes a sorrowing.
He that will steal an egg will steal an ox.
No man loves his fetters, be they made of gold.
As you make your bed, so must you lie on it.
Better early than late.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
Christmas comes but once a year, (but when it comes it brings good cheer).
Better deny at once than promise long.
Curiosity killed a cat.
Every dog has his day.
Fool’s haste is no speed.
He who pleased everybody died before he was born.
If my aunt had been a man, she’d have been my uncle.
A city that parleys is half-gotten.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
The best is oftentimes the enemy of the good.
Don’t sell the bear’s skin before you’ve caught it.
Burn not your house to rid it of the mouse
A penny saved is a penny gained.
Poverty is no sin.
Old friends and old wine are best.
Neither fish nor flesh.
The rotten apple injures its neighbours.
The voice of one man is the voice of no one.
To bring grist to somebody’s mill.
He that has a full purse never wanted a friend.
To save one’s bacon.
Idle folks lack no excuses.
Care killed the cat
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
A blind leader of the blind.
It is a good horse that never stumbles.
The camel going to seek horns lost his ears.
He that knows nothing doubts nothing.
He who would eat the nut must first crack the shell.
The early bird catches the worm.
Between two stools one goes (falls) to the ground
Procrastination is the thief of time.
We know not what is good until we have lost it.
Death is the grand leveler.
As welcome as flowers in May.
Easy come, easy go.
Oaks may fall when reeds stand the storm.
Many a good cow has a bad calf.
Actions speak louder than words.
Like priest, like people.
What is lost is lost.
Many hands make light work.
One chick keeps a hen busy.
The darkest place is under the candlestick.
Extremes meet.
The cask savours of the first fill.
When guns speak it is too late to argue.
Better go to bed supperless than rise in debt.
A fox is not taken twice in the same snare.
He that is warm thinks all so.
To drop a bucket into an empty well.
He must need a swim that is held up by the chin.
One man, no man.
Opinions differ.
A lawyer never goes to law himself.
To pull the devil by the tail.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of learning.
One beats the bush, and another catches the bird.
Open not your door when the devil knocks.
All truths are not to be told.
To make a mountain out of a molehill.
As sure as eggs are eggs.
Tastes differ.
By doing nothing we learn to do ill
Every Jack has his Jill.
Gifts from enemies are dangerous.
Love is blind, as well as hatred.
Good counsel does no harm.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Don’t keep a dog and bark yourself.
A clean fast is better than a dirty breakfast.
If the sky falls, we shall catch larks.
Make or mar.
Roll my log and I will roll yours.
When at Rome, do as the Romans do.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
To build a fire under oneself.
Gentility without ability is worse than plain beggary.
He dances well to whom fortune pipes.
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Where there’s a will, there’s a way.
Every country has its customs.
Every why has a wherefore.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Self is a bad counsellor.
The end justifies the means.
He that fears you present will hate you absent.
Great talkers are little doers.
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
One drop of poison infects the whole tun of wine.
Stretch your legs according to the coverlet.
He lives long that lives well.
Beauty is but skin-deep.
Short debts (accounts) make long friends.
When the devil is blind.
No great loss without some small gain.
They must hunger in winter that will not work in summer.
True blue will never stain.
An oak is not felled at one stroke.
A clean hand wants no washing.
Bad news has wings.
To be wise behind the hand.
The best defence is offence.
Appetite comes with eating.
To have a finger in the pie.
Delays are dangerous.
Idleness is the mother of all evil.
To come off cheap.
To pull the chestnuts out of the fire for somebody.
Need makes the old wife trot.
No sweet without (some) sweat.
Lost time is never found again.
He cannot speak well that cannot hold his tongue.
An ass in a lion’s skin.
It’s one thing to flourish and another to fight.
They are hand and glove.
Murder will out.
To find a mare’s nest.
A good deed is never lost.
Believe not all that you see nor half what you hear.
There is no rule without an exception.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Every dog is valiant at his own door.
He is not laughed at that laughs at himself first.
Experience keeps a dear school, but fools learn in no other.
One law for the rich, and another for the poor.
All bread is not baked in one oven.
A fly in the ointment.
It’s as broad as it’s long.
The busiest man finds the most leisure.
Neck or nothing.
An idle brain is the devil’s workshop.
The cap fits.
Better to reign in hell, than serve in heaven.
To cast pearls before swine.
Money spent on the brain is never spent in vain.
To stick to somebody like a leech.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Never cackle till your egg is laid.
Forbearance is no acquittance.
Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
Everything is good in its season.
A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound.
Leaves without figs.
Slow but sure.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Tomorrow come never.
Drunken days have all their tomorrow.
No song, no supper.
All is not lost that is in peril.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
A hard nut to crack.
As plain as the nose on a man’s face.
Might goes before right.
All roads lead to Rome.
To cook a hare before catching him.
Live and learn.
A hungry man is an angry man.
Just as the twig is bent, the tree is inclined.
An ill wound is cured, not an ill name.
First, deserve and then desire.
Good masters make good servants.
Don’t whistle (halloo) until you are out of the wood.
He that talks much errs much.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
A round peg in a square hole.
Any port in a storm.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Hate not at the first harm.
He that spares the bad injures the good.
One scabby sheep will mar a whole flock.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Last, but not least.
The cobbler should stick to his last.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
At the ends of the earth.
The cheapest is the dearest
Many a good father has but a bad son.
To get out of bed on the wrong side.
A word is enough to the wise.
As welcome as water in one’s shoes.
If things were to be done twice all would be wise.
Least said, soonest mended.
Mend or end (end or mend).
Two heads are better than one.
Words pay no debts.
A watched pot never boils.
He that goes barefoot must not plant thorns.
Make hay while the sun shines.
To come off with flying colours.
Haste makes waste.
Little thieves are hanged, but great ones escape.
It is no use crying over spilled milk.
Nightingales will not sing in a cage.
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings.
Success is never blamed.
Give a fool rope enough, and he will hang himself.
He that has a great nose thinks everybody is speaking of it.
The way (the road) to hell is paved with good intentions.
Set a beggar on horseback and he’ll ride to the devil.
Friends are thieves of time.
Fortune favours the brave (the bold).
It is enough to make a cat laugh.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
Never too much of a good thing.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
To come out dry.
He that never climbed never fell.
He is a fool that forgets himself.
Every bird likes its own nest.
He knows best what good is that has endured evil.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Experience keeps no school, she teaches her pupils singly.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
The fat is in the fire.
As plain as two and two make four.
Man proposes but God disposes.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
To live from hand to mouth.
The end crowns the work.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Dog eats dog.
To kill two birds with one stone.
A liar is not believed when he speaks the truth.
The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
He will never set the Thames on fire.
Nothing comes out of the sack but what was in it.
In the country of the blind one-eyed man is a king.
Great talkers are great liars.
To look for a needle in a haystack.
Blood is thicker than water
A light purse is a heavy curse.
Life is but a span.
To give a lark to catch a kite.
Fair words break no bones.
Like a cat on hot bricks.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
So many men, so many minds.
To be up to the ears in love.
There are more ways to the wood than one.
Iron hand (fist) in a velvet glove.
To call off the dogs.
Packed like herrings.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
Honours change manners.
Better lose a jest than a friend.
Barking does seldom bite.
Promise little, but do much.
He who knows much knows how to hold his tongue.
More haste, less speed.
Every bean has its black.
It never rains but it pours.
Let every man praise the bridge he goes over.
Better be born lucky than rich.
As snug as a bug in a rug.
He that has He head needs no hat.
Life is not a bed of roses.
The devil lurks behind the cross.
To run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
As like an apple to an oyster.
First think, then speak.
Good clothes open all doors.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
The chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
It is good fishing in troubled waters.
Better one-eyed than stone-blind.
Think today and speak tomorrow.
Empty vessels make the greatest (the most) sound.
All are good lasses, but whence come the bad wives?
True coral needs no painter’s brush.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Every ass loves to hear himself bray.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
To call a spade a spade.
Great spenders are bad lenders.
What is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh.
What the heart thinks the tongue speaks.
Who breaks, pays.
Grasp all, lose all.
Money is a good servant but a bad master.
Better unborn than untaught.
Many a little makes a mickle.
He that commits a fault thinks everyone speaks of it.
To wear one’s heart upon one’s sleeve.
The heart that once truly loves never forgets.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.
A fool may throw a stone into a well that a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
Beauty lies in the lover’s eyes.
Sink or swim!
Children are poor men’s riches.
Everybody’s business is nobody’s business.
Ill-gotten, ill-spent.
Borrowed garments never fit well
That’s where the shoe pinches!
Appearances are deceitful.
Judge not of men and things at first sight.
Wise after the event.
Custom is the plague of wise men and the idol of fools.
Calamity is man’s true touchstone
He that will thrive, must rise at five.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
One lie makes many.
Doing is better than saying.
Don’t count your chickens before they are hatched.
The devil knows many things because he is old.
The mountain has brought forth a mouse.
Time cures all things.
If you laugh before breakfast you’ll cry before supper.
To put a spoke in somebody’s wheel.
We never know the value of water till the well is dry.
He should have a long spoon that sups with the devil.
Wealth is nothing without health.
You can take a horse to the water but you cannot make him drink.
Ask no questions and you will be told no lies.
Money has no smell.
Better the foot slip than the tongue.
Many men, many minds.
Much ado about nothing.
A hungry belly has no ears.
If there were no clouds, we should not enjoy the sun.
You cannot teach old dogs new tricks.
When the fox preaches, take care of your geese.
A beggar can never be bankrupt.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
All cats are grey in the dark (at night).
Drive the nail that will go.
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
If you try to please all you will please none.
Look before you leap, but having leapt never look back.
The cobbler’s wife is the worst shod.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
To set the wolf to keep the sheep.
A fool’s tongue runs before his wit.
Feast today and fast tomorrow.
Every man is the architect of his own fortunes.
To carry coals to Newcastle.
Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.
A Jack of all trades is master of none.
He that promises too much means nothing.
Death when it comes will have no denial.
It is never too late to learn.
Every bullet has its billet.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A lie begets a lie.
A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
To come out with clean hands.
Idleness rusts the mind.
Misfortunes never come alone (singly).
When wine is in, wit is out.
A good name keeps its lustre in the dark.
All covet, all lose.
He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody.
There are lees to every wine.
If an ass (donkey) bray at you, don’t bray at him.
Learn to say before you sing.
Creditors have better memories than debtors.
An empty hand is no lure for a hawk.
The evils we bring on ourselves are hardest to bear.
To pay one back in one’s own coin.
To know what’s what.
Repentance is good, but innocence is better.
Catch the bear before you sell his skin
Far from eye, far from the heart.
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned.
New lords, new laws.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Prosperity makes friends, and adversity tries them.
An open door may tempt a saint.
My house is my castle.
A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich.
A wise man changes his mind, a fool never will.
What we do willingly is easy.
Handsome is that handsome does.
If you throw mud enough, some of it will stick.
The more haste, the less speed.
A man can do no more than he can.
No man is wise at all times.
An ass is but an ass, though laden with gold.
Shallow streams make most din.
To put off till Doomsday.
The more the merrier.
An empty vessel gives a greater sound than a full barrel.
Good words and no deeds.
Debt is the worst poverty.
Keep your mouth shut and your ears open.
Fortune is easily found, but hard to be kept.
Give never the wolf the wether to keep.
Learn to creep before you leap.
Better a glorious death than a shameful life.
A forced kindness deserves no thanks.
He goes long barefoot that waits for the dead man’s shoes.
No herb will cure love.
To cast prudence to the winds.
What is done by night appears by day.
To know on which side one’s bread is buttered.
Happiness takes no account of time.
You cannot flay the same ox twice.
With time and patience, the leaf of the mulberry becomes satin.
A great dowry is a bed full of brambles.
Standers-by see more than gamesters.
Business before pleasure
A bad corn promise is better than a good lawsuit.
Brevity is the soul of wit
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
Jest with an ass and he will flap you in the face with his tail.
The moon does not heed the barking of dogs.
Every barber knows that.
By the street of ‘by-and-bye,’ one arrives at the house of ‘Never’
When three know it, all know it.
Self-done is soon done.
After dinner comes the reckoning.
Beggars cannot be choosers.
For the love of the game.
Love cannot be forced.
To throw a stone in one’s own garden.
All are not merry that dance lightly.
A friend to all is a friend to none.
Fish and company stink in three days.
He is not poor that has little, but he that desires much.
He carries fire in one hand and water in the other.
When Queen Anne was alive.
The beggar may sing before the thief (before a footpad).
There is a place for everything and everything in its place.
If you dance you must pay the fiddler.
To rob one’s belly to cover one’s back.
Like draws to like.
Stolen pleasures are the sweetest.
Love will creep where it may not go.
The game is not worth the candle.
As you brew, so must you drink.
On Shank’s mare.
To draw (pull) in one’s horns.
Honesty is the best policy.
To be in one’s birthday suit.
Death pays all debts.
Gluttony kills more men than the sword.
A nod from a lord is breakfast for a fool.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
To buy a pig in a poke.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
He that once deceives is ever suspected.
To err is human.
As like two peas.
To plough the sand.
Bacchus has drowned more men than Neptune.
Fools never know when they are well.
To lay by for a rainy day.
Diseases are the interests of pleasures.
He that talks much lies much.
Of two evils choose the least.
Rome was not built in a day.
To cut one’s throat with a feather.
To measure other people’s corn by one’s own bushel.
Hunger breaks stone walls.
Score twice before you cut once.
A fool may ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
To roll in money.
A clear conscience laughs at false accusations.
A bird may be known by its song.
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
To fight with one’s own shadow.
It is a long lane that has no turning.
Deeds, not words.
Old birds are not caught with chaff.
A fool always rushes to the fore.
Saying and doing are two things.
No joy without alloy.
A good wife makes a good husband.
Great boast, small roast.
From pillar to post.
Speak (talk) of the devil and he will appear (is sure to appear).
It’s no use pumping a dry well.
Draw not your bow till your arrow is fixed.
A great ship asks deep waters.
A wonder lasts but nine days.
Soon learnt, soon forgotten.
Do as you would be done.
To treat somebody with a dose of his own medicine.
Self-done is well done.
A civil denial is better than a rude grant.
Too much water drowned the miller.
Little chips light great fires.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Beware of a silent dog and still water
Truth lies at the bottom of a well.
Opportunity makes the thief.
To be head over ears in debt.
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
A miserly father makes a prodigal son.
He that has an ill name is half hanged.
To lock the stable door after the horse is stolen.
A soft answer turns away wrath.
After us the deluge.
Happy is he that is happy in his children.
Diligence is the mother of success (good luck).
To beat about the bush.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
To throw dust in somebody’s eyes.
The leopard cannot change its spots.
Among the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
As the call, so the echo.
To use a steam hammer to crack nuts.
Honey is not for the ass’s mouth.
When flatterers meet, the devil goes to dinner.
You cannot eat your cake and have it.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
A man of words and not of deeds is like a garden full of weeds.
Bind the sack before it is full
Learn wisdom by the follies of others.
Nothing venture, nothing have.
Wash your dirty linen at home.
There is no place like home.
We soon believe what we desire.
Lies have short legs.
