He that brings good news, knocks hard.
Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
Big thunder, little rain.
Romeo must die in order to save the love.
The point is plain as a pike staff.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Look before you leap.
A fool is ever laughing.
He that gapes until he be fed, well may he gape till he be dead.
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
Great minds think alike.
Не that never climbed, never fell.
The belly has no ears.
Don't change horses in midstream.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
He that gets forgets, but he that wants thinks on.
A rotten apple injures its companions.
What can't be cured, must be endured.
Fire, quoth the fox, when he pissed on the ice.
Pay what you owe and you'll know what you're worth.
He who hesitates is lost.
It is ill fishing before the net.
To the victor goes the spoils.
Beware of a silent dog and still water.
The greatest barkers bite not sorest.
Use soft words and hard arguments.
Put not fire to flax.
He is lifeless that is faultless.
Learning is the eye of the mind.
Classic, a book which people praise and don't read. (Mark Twain)
He who sups with the devil has need of a long spoon.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
Few are fit to be entrusted with themselves.
Stolen fruit is the sweetest. (Strauss, 1994 p. 835)
Anger edges valor.
Don't put new wine into old bottles.
Great minds agree.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
An old dog will learn no tricks.
Touch wood. (20th century)
All promises are either broken or kept.
A deluge of words and a drop of sense.
Breed up a crowand he will tear out your eyes.
Accidents will happen in the best regulated families.
Hit the nail on the head.
As is the workman, so is the work.
Desperate cuts must have desperate cures.
He who is shipwrecked the second time cannot lay the blame on Neptune.
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'pworth of tar.
All are good lasses, but whence come bad wives?
I will either win the saddle or lose the horse.
Put not thy hand between the bark and the tree.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
Heresy is the school of pride.
We are wise enough ourselves.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
Even a blind squirrel finds a nut once in a while.
Thrift is a great revenue. a little, often, leaves wrinkles in the purse.
Let them all go to Jericho,
Evil begets evil.
When a friend asks there is no tomorrow.
A forgetful head makes a weary pair of heels.
Practise what you preach.
Experience is the mistress of fools.
A child's service is little, yet he is no little fool that despises it.
Diligent youth makes easy age.
Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin.
Better late than never.
A creaking cart goes long on the wheels.
Stupidity won't kill you, but it can make you sweat.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
Disease is soon shaken By physic soon taken.
Once a gentleman, always a gentleman. (Charles Dickens)
When fools pipe, he may dance.
What mare's nest hast thou found?
A miss is as good as a mile.
A fox smells its own stink first.
Out of small acorns grow mighty oaks.
Work done, have your fun.
Good words cool more than cold water.
Good eating deserves good drinking.
All things are soon prepared in a well ordered house.
The finest edge is made with the blunt whetstone.
A cobbler formed the shape of shoes on a wooden foot shaped last. If it lasted long he was happy.
The fed hound never hunts.
Silence gives consent. (14th century)
No rose without a thorn.
All for one and one for all.
Time is money.
Time is the soul of business.
The longer we live, the more wonders we see.
You cannot touch pitch and not be defiled.
Rather weigh the will of the speaker, than the worth of the words.
Mind your p's and q's.
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
Pleasures shorten tedious nights.
Loose lips sink ships.
If you want peace, prepare for war.
Wink at small faults unless you can cast the first stone.
You never know what you can do until you try.
A man can't be hanged for his thoughts.
A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture.
For whom does the blind man's wife paint herself?
Poor thieves in halters we behold; And great thieves in their chains of gold.
A new broom sweeps clean.
It is good to have some friends both in heaven and hell. (1640)
Be a friend to thyself, and others will befriend thee.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
Every one's faults are not written in their foreheads.
Thou wilt scarce be a man before thy mother. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Don't bark if you can't bite.
Justice pleaseth few in their own house.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
A little Learning is a dangerous thing.
It is good sheltering under an old hedge.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Pearls of wisdom.
Take care of number one.
Mind your own business.
There's no such thing as bad publicity.
We have nothing to fear but fear itself.
From a choleric man withdraw a little; from him that says nothing for ever.
To bow the body is easy, to bow the will is hard.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft.
You don't shit where you eat.
Mouth is in gear, brain is in neutral.
As thick as thieves.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
Never do things by halves.
Chains of gold are stronger than chains of iron.
A young man married is a young man marred.
He that lives well is learned enough.
Laughter is the shortest distance between two people.
An injury forgiven is better than an injury revenged.
You catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
When a man repeats a promise again and again, he means to fail you.
Не jests at scars that never felt a wound.
If thou hast not a capon, feed on an onion.
Venture a small fish to catch a much greater one.
The tree is known by its fruit.
Ell and tell is good merchandise.
Lie down with dogs, wake up with fleas.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all sit near him.
An empty barrel makes the most noise.
There is no smoke without fire. (15th century, Citatboken)
Confidence is the companion of success.
Better be alone than in bad company.
No man can make his own good luck.
Say it with flowers. (Patrick O'Keefe)
Sin is the root of much sorrow.
Poor men go to heaven as soon as rich.
An honest man's word is as good as his bond.
Good men are scarce.
I complained I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
Diseases come on horseback, but steal away on foot.
He who sleeps forgets his hunger.
Money spent on brain is never spent in vain.
Counsel is no command.
Never fry a fish till it's caught.
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
Set good against evil.
Better is the enemy of good.
You cannot judge a tree by its bark.
If words could only speak, they'd mean even less.
Eyes are bigger than your belly.
Made no more bones.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
You can't squeeze blood from a stone.
No pains, no gains.
If a man deceive me once, shame on him; but if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
If you make songs about yourself, you can't blame other people for singing them.
When all men speak, no man hears.
April showers bring May flowers.
What goes around comes around.
With one child you may walk; with two you may ride; when you have three, at home you must bide.
Eternity has no grey hairs.
Crumb not your bread before you taste your porridge.
Meat is much, but manners is better.
Advisers run no risks.
Delays are not denials.
Speak softly and carry a big stick.
A fool sees not the same tree that a wise man sees. (William Blake)
Is there no mean but fast or feast?
Man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave. (Thomas Browne)
There is no other purgatory but a woman. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Men are not angels.
Labour is light where love pays.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
And he repents in thorns that sleeps in beds of roses.
A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.
A book is a friend.
There is honor even among thieves.
What "they say" is half lies.
One man's trash is another man's treasure.
The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm.
Women are like wasps in their anger.
Fair play's a jewel.
What is the good of a sundial in the shade?
Slow and steady wins the race.
Health is better than wealth.
When a thing is done, advice comes too late.
Ale in, wit out.
If one sheep leaps over the ditch, all the rest will follow.
A person is known by the company he keeps.
Manners maketh the man.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
The opera ain't over until the fat lady sings.
Too much of one thing, good for nothing.
Love me, love my dog.
Different strokes for different folks.
A house is a fine house when good folks are within.
Books think for me.
Where every man is master the world goes to wreck.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
A goose quill is more dangerous than a lion's claw.
A degenerate nobleman is like a turnip. There is nothing good of him but that which is underground.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Today is the scholar of yesterday.
The covetous spends more than the liberal.
Curses like chickens come home to roost.
You know the tree by its fruit.
He that's a wise man by day is no fool by night.
Age and wedlock tame man and beast.
We are often shot with our own feathers.
Much of a muchness.
Shoemaker, not above the sandal.
Claw me, and I will claw thee.
A half the truth is often a whole lie.
Ye learn your father to get bairns.
If the cap fits, wear it.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
All those men have their price. (Robert Walpole)
The royal crown cures not the headache.
Hair of the dog that bit you.
That's the last straw.
No garden without its weeds.
Finders keepers, losers seekers.
What is gold is worth gold.
Sorrow remembered sweetens present joy.
Fools live poor to die rich.
They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow.
The truth shall set you free, or The truth will set you free.
Ye hae the best end a' the string.
A small family is soon provided for.
Look to yourself when your neighbour's house is on fire.
There is no accounting for tastes.
The leopard does not change his spots.
On his last legs.
Money is a good servant, but a bad master.
There are as good fish in the sea as ever were caught.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
Wade not in unknown waters.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Foul water will quench fire.
When a snake gets warm on ice, then a German will wish well to a Czech.
Late children are early orphans.
In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty.
He that will not when he may, when he will he may have nay.
Don't keep a dog and bark yourself.
Unprofitable is a fever of the world.
He that stays in the valley, shall never get over the hill.
The noisiest drum has nothing in it but air.
Early bird gets the worm.
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
Every one stretcheth his legs according to his coverlet.
It takes all sorts of people to make a world.
Respect is greater from a distance.
A rich man's money often hangs him.
The pitcher that goes too often to the well is broken at last.
Sweep in front of your own door.
Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold.
A hen is heavy when carried far.
To forget wrong is the best revenge.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
The Devil's children have the Devil's luck.
Men are best loved farthest off.
Venture not to defend what your judgment doubts of.
For want of a nail a kingdom was lost.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
At the end of the game the king and the pawn go into the same bag.
Silence means consent.
Age and wedlock bring a man to his nightcap.
If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.
Brag is a good dog, but holdfast is better.
There is no benefit that sticks to the fingers.
God is better pleased with adverbs than with nouns.
Barkis is willin'.
Old sins have long shadows.
Nothing enters into a close hand.
Time is a great healer.
Dying men speak true.
It is good grafting on a good stock.
The golden age never was the present age.
As proud as Lucifer. (14th century)
Reality is not only stranger than we imagine, it is stranger than we can imagine.
The early bird catches the worm.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
On painting and fighting look aloof.
We know not what is good until we have lost it.
Happy wife, happy life.
Judge not, lest ye be judged.
Fine words dress ill deeds.
When guns speak it is too late to argue.
The fingers have got pretty close to the thumb.
Nature is the true law.
Eat your own dog food.
Don't have too many irons in the fire. (16th century) (Citatboken)
When children stand quiet, they have done some ill.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
No man is indispensable.
Of a thorn springs not a fig.
If the sky falls, we shall catch larks.
Misfortunes hasten age.
Love is as strong as death.
Up a creek without a paddle.
No hoof, no horse.
Many a one blames his wife for his own unthrift.
No pleasure without pain.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Tomorrow is another day.
Advice to all, security for none.
Whistle, and she'll come to you.
Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely.
If you would know the value of a ducat, try to borrow one.
A worthy woman is the crown of her husband.
A poor workman always blames his tools.
When friends fall out the truth doth appear.
Practice makes permanent.
Only fools and horses work.
The riches of the mind may make a man rich and happy.
Attack is the best form of defence.
A smooth sea never made a skillful mariner.
The peacock has fair feathers, but foul feet.
Don't burn your bridges behind you.
Learn to walk before you run.
Ask no questions and hear no lies.
What the eye does not see the heart does not grieve over.
The third time someone tries to put a saddle on you, you should admit you're a horse.
Better to say nothing, than to say something not to the purpose.
The devil finds work for idle hands.
True coral needs no painter's brush.
Old age is a hospital that takes in all diseases.
Call a spade a spade.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
Beauty and honesty seldom agree.
Adversity flatters no man.
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.
He that is fallen cannot help him that is down.
Anger is a short madness.
Man with four balls can't walk.
A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound.
It takes two to tango. (Oshry, 1996 p. 59)
A creaking door hangs longest.
He that cannot beat the horse beats the saddle.
Success (only) comes after every necessary precaution.
There is no tree but bears some fruit.
Eighty percent of life is showing up.
When drink's in wit's oot.
Death closes all doors.
If you can't stand the heat get out of the kitchen.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
The more acquaintance, the more danger.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at the present.
A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.
Sweet are the uses of adversity.
One cannot be too careful.
An eel by his tail, an Irishman at his word.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
A good man in an evil society seems the greatest villain of all.
The absent are always in the wrong.
He that knows thee will never buy thee.
One of these day is none of these days.
The charitable give out the door and god puts in at the window.
Make hay while the sun shines.
It is a great point of wisdom to find out one's own folly.
Talk is cheap.
Business is business.
Make not the sauce till you have caught the fish.
Religion, credit, and the eye are not to be touched.
A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client.
Happy is the bride the sun shines on.
Misfortunes never come singly.
The fat is in the fire.
He is worth his weight in gold. (16th century)
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
Long visits bring short compliments.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Life's battle don't always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
To kill two birds with one stone.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
What goes up must come down.
Take the bull by the horns.
He that will take the bird must not scare it.
Take things as you find them. (Strauss 1994, p. 722)
Some man are wise, and some are otherwise.
A blow with a word strikes deeper than a blow with a sword.
Where God has a church the devil will have his chapel.
Give, and ye shall receive.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Bad is the best choice.
Cheat me in the price, but not in the goods.
Cold as charity. (14th century)
Не cannot speak well that cannot hold his tongue.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby. (Strauss 1994, p. 683)
Не that fears lives not.
Do as I say, not as I do.
Bread is the staff of life.
One rotten apple will spoil the whole barrel. or One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
Poverty is not a shame, but the being ashamed of it is.
A good paymaster never wants workmen.
We all labour against our own cure, for death is the cure of all diseases. (Sir Thomas Browne)
All colours will agree in the dark. (Francis Bacon)
The devil lurks behind the cross.
The greater the truth, the greater the libel.
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
Beer before wine, you'll feel fine. Wine before beer, you'll feel queer.
Have not want not.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away--if you have good aim.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
A half truth is a whole lie.
Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails.
He that will have a cake out of the wheat must tarry the grinding.
An old cart well used may outlast a new one abused.
The world is your oyster.
Measure twice, cut once.
Don't lock the stable door after the horse is stolen.
The old should not be overfed.
Army marches on its stomach.
All is fish that comes to the net.
Leave a great talker in the middle of the street.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat.
Much bran and little meal.
Happy is he whose friends were born before him. Счастлив тот, чьи друзья родились раньше него.
No bees, no honey; no work, no money.
Many a good cow has an evil calf.
He that hath no ill fortune is troubled with good.
When war begins, then hell opens.
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.
Cold hands warm heart.
Go West, young man, go West! (John Soule)
The dog that fetches will carry.
A little bird told me.
A hero is a man who is afraid to run away.
Не that always complains is never pitied.
Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.
Blest is the bride the sun shines on.
It is pride, not nature, that craves much.
Beauty and folly go often in company.
Slow to speak, but quick to act.
The eagle does not catch flies.
To carry coals to Newcastle.
Think before you speak.
All work and no play makes Jack filthy rich.
It is never too late to learn.
Opportunity only knocks once.
Still water runs deep.
What does the moon care if the dogs bark at her?
Truth is a spectre that scares many.
Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.
He is a fool that forgets himself. (14th century)
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
Justice delayed is justice denied.
Life's not all beer and skittles.
Repentance is good, but innocence is better.
A fair booty makes a fair thief.
Spring has come when you can put your foot on three daisies.
He preaches well that lives well.
Tell not all you know, all you have, or all you can do.
Better a finger off than one wagging.
Work is worship.
A man's studies pass into his character.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
Fools will be fools.
He is wise that is ware in time.
Egotist: a person of low taste, more interested in himself than in me. (Ambrose Bierce)
Don't reckon with your host.
Sauce for the goose, is sauce for the gander.
Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested. (Francis Bacon)
It's the squeaky wheel that gets the grease.
'Tis a stinger.
Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas.
Good things come to those who wait.
Year of snow fruit will grow.
Forgive and forget.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Other times, other manners.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools. (1640)
Though this be madness, yet there is method in't. (William Shakespeare)
Where coin is not common, provisions can be scant.
Far from court, far from care.
Between two evils it is not worth choosing.
To rise with the lark, and go to bed with the lamb.
By perseverance the snail reached the arc.
Do not think that one enemy is insignificant, or that a thousand friends are too many.
Cheese and money should always sleep together one night.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Like water off a duck's back.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Authority shows the man.
What cannot gold do?
The owl thinks her own young fairest.
Confession is good for the soul.
What is the matter with Kansas?
The cowl does not make the monk.
How well I feathered my nest.
What canna be cured maun be endured.
Cheapest is the dearest.
Almsgiving never impoverished, stealing never enriched, and prosperity never made wise.
Fast bind, fast find;
Knock and the door will be opened unto you.
The pitcher which goes too often to the well gets broken.
One hand washes the other.
An inch of gold will not buy an inch of time.
Put new wine into old bottles..
Life's a bitch and then you marry one.
The little cannot be great unless he devour many.
Old praise dies unless you feed it.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
Love and ambition admit no fellowship.
Не that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
Go with the flow.
Wise men learn by other men men's harms, fools by their own.
Opportunity makes the thief.
There was never a conflict without a woman.
Не will never set the Thames on fire.
Another man's poison is not necessarily yours.
There is no blindness like ignorance.
A good mind possesses a kingdom.
Better untaught than ill taught.
There are only two kinds of women, the plain and the coloured.
Truth often hides in an ugly pool.
All political parties die at last of swallowing their own lies. (John Arbuthnot)
When flatterers meet, the devil goes to dinner.
Burn not your house to fright the mouse away.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
The anger is not warrantable that has seen two suns.
Debts remain from day to day.
The more you study, the more you know. The more you know, the more you forget. The more you forget, the less you know. The less you know, the more you study.
A penny saved is very grateful.
From those to whom much is given, much is expected.
Without sleep, no health.
He who has an art has everywhere a part.
A bargain is a bargain.
There is but one road out of the tower and that leads to the scaffold.
Anger makes dull men witty, but it keeps them poor. (Francis Bacon)
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
What is honour? a word. What is that word, honour? Air. (William Shakespeare)
Wink at small faults.
Faults are thick where love is thin. (1659)
We are such stuff / As dreams are made of.
Не is not the best carpenter that makes the most chips.
Small cheer and great welcome make a great feast.
All weapons of war cannot arm fear.
There is danger in delay. (Strauss, 1998 p. 695)
He that bulls the cow must keep the calf.
The pot calls the kettle black.
Like cures like.
Command your man, and do it yourself.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
Beauty is only skin deep.
Deep calls to deep. (Strauss 1994, p. 695)
Wait for the cat to jump.
Do unto others as you would they should do unto you.
If fortune favours, beware of being exalted; if fortune thunders, beware of being overwhelmed.
All flowers are not in one garland.
Misfortunes come of themselves.
Reason does not come before years.
Absence sharpens love, presence strengthens it.
The cat has nine lives: three for playing, three for straying, three for staying.
If you snooze you lose.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
If thou seest ought amiss, mend it in thyself.
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.
Don't talk the talk if you can't walk the walk.
When love cools fauts are seen.
Hard words break no bones.
A mother never thinks her baby is ugly.
No means no.
Comparisons are odorous.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
In a cat's eye, all things belong to cats.
Birds of a feather flock together.
As a man lives, so shall he die.
A cat may look at a king.
A black hen lays a white egg.
Little by little and bit by bit.
The peerage is the englishman's bible.
Fly that pleasure which pains afterward.
Think of ease, but work on.
There is better fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
Small birds must have meat.
Galen explains clearly, if less succinctly, in De Causis Procatarcticis (2nd c. A.D.), VI. 63–65:.
Better bow than break.
He that will be rich before night, may be hanged before noon.
It's the early bird that gets the worm.
It's a cracked pitcher that goes longest to the well.
The Devil finds work for idle hands to do.
It will be all the same in a hundred years.
When pigs fly.
Love is full of busy fear.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
I have you on the hip.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
Better die standing than live kneeling.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
Youth is wasted on the young.
Every bean hath its black.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
Life is what you make it.
There's always room at the top.
If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.
Boldness in business is the first, second and third thing.
Ye look like a rinner, quo' the deil to the lobster.
Example is better than correction.
He who lives according to nature will never be poor, and he who lives according to opinion will never be rich.
Though this may be play to you,
Hide their diminished heads.
All that glisters is not gold.
Every man has his price.
You may find your best friend or your worst enemy in yourself.
Kindness, like a boomerang, always returns.
Never tell your enemy that your foot aches.
You can't get blood out of a turnip.
He that has no good trade, it is to his loss.
Spread the table and contention will cease.
No friendship is strong that owes its rise to a pot. Недолговечна дружба, возникшая за обе денным столом.
I'm tired of Love: I'm still more tired of Rhyme. But Money gives me pleasure all the time. (Hilaire Belloc)
Take a dog for a companion and a stick in your hand.
A surgeon experiments on the heads of orphans.
Truth will come to light.
There is an hour wherein a man might be happy all his life, could he find it.
Proverbs are the children of experience.
Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
Prevention is better than cure.
There is no better manure than the farmer's foot.
Law cannot persuade where it cannot punish.
You may break a horse's back, be he never so strong.
Caesar's wife must be above suspicion.
It is easy to bear the misfortunes of others.
Easter so longed for is gone in a day.
A handful of good life, is better than a bushel of learning.
Don't judge a man until you have walked a mile in his boots.
Hell is empty and all the devils are here. (William Shakespeare)
The healthful man can give counsel to the sick.
What can't speak can't lie.
Accusing the times is but excusing ourselves.
Beauty may open doors but only virtue enters.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
The crow went traveling abroad and came back just as black.
Slop your hogs before you feed your children.
Let bygones be bygones.
When all is wet to the skin, hold out yet.
To each his own.
Eat when you're hungry, and drink when you're dry.
Sop to Cerebus.
The person who pursues revenge should dig two graves.
A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.
Welcome, evil, if thou comest alone.
Too much hope deceives.
Love in a cottage.
Easier said than done.
Never do today what you can put off till tomorrow.
A king's face should show grace.
In every beginning think of the end.
Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Give and take is fair play.
He comes not in my books.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
He that makes a good war, makes a good peace.
One does harm, and another bears the blame.
Learning makes people fit company for themselves.
Soon ripe, soon rotten.
If you want enemies excel others, if you want friends let others excel you.
You can't teach grandma to suck eggs.
Pride in prosperity turns to misery in adversity.
Live and let live.
Our country, right or wrongǃ (Stephen Decatur)
Heresy may be easier kept out than shook off.
Good judgement comes from experience, and experience comes from poor judgement.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
Everyone is weary: the poor in seeking, the rich in keeping, the good in learning.
Enjoy your little while the fool is seeking for more.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
Absence is the mother of disillusion.
Ye're a foot behint the foremost.
The crutch of time does more than the club of Hercules.
Where there's a will there's a way.
Great barkers are no biters.
You win some, you lose some.
Bind the sack before it is full.
A penny for your thoughts.
And ne'er be seen againe.
Don't drown the man who taught you to swim.
He that waits on another man's trencher, makes many a late dinner.
Leave no stone unturned.
A rich man's joke is not always funny.
Love me little, love me long.
Out of sight... Out of mind.
Hope for the best, expect the worst.
Never judge the book by it's cover.
First thoughts are best.
Avoid the pleasure which will bite tomorrow.
A broken leg is not healed by a silk stocking.
A big tree attracts the woodsman's ax.
Sport as you may while the master's away.
It is an equal failing to trust everybody and to trust nobody.
It is a poor wood that has never a withered bough in it.
A black plum is as sweet as a white.
Do on the hill as you would do in the hall.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools.
A man may die old at thirty and young at eighty.
Prosperity gets followers, but adversity distinguishes them.
A cast is not a catch.
Misfotunes come on wings and depart on foot.
A house is not a home.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
To be good tends to give absence later on.
Death always comes too early or too late.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
Hindsight is always twenty-twenty.
A man without religion is a horse without a bridle.
With patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
If you don't love yourself with passion, you'll love others with it. Passion is conserved.
A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
It's always darkest before the dawn.
Someone who gossips to you will gossip about you.
What may be done at ony time will be done at nae time.
Kissing goes by favor.
Riches take away more pleasures than they give.
Every dog hath its day.
Plenty breeds pride.
Give neither advice nor salt, until you are asked for it.
A rolling stone is not covered with moss.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
Kill not the goose that laid the golden egg.
The sting of a reproach is the truth of it.
It will be a forward cock that crows in the shell.
One picture is worth ten thousand words.
An unfortunate man would be drowned in a teacup.
A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor.
No man better knows what good is than he who has endured evil.
Much is expected where much is given. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1095)
Chance favors the prepared mind.
We are as near to heaven by sea as by land! (Humphrey Gilbert)
Fancy passes beauty.
They are rich who have true friends.
No time like the present.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
In every country dogs bite.
Eat to live, don't live to eat.
There are too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
There's no such thing as a free lunch.
Ill comes often on the back of worse.
Like counsellor, like counsel.
At Rome one must do the Romans do.
Different sores must have different salves.
He that would the daughter win Must with the mother first begin.
What is extraordinary, try to look at with your own eyes.
He who laughs last laughs longest.
God is, and all is well.
Elbow grease is the best polish.
A woman's work is never done.
Much travel is needed to ripen a man's rawness.
Every day is not Sunday.
The secret of success is constancy of purpose.
There is only eight years between success and failure in politics.
Не that loves the tree, loves the branch.
One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. (1639)
The cat shuts its eyes when stealing cream.
Advice when most needed is least heeded.
What will be will be.
Who has a woman has an eel by the tail.
If you can't beat em, join em.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
Why have a dog and bark yourself?
It's no use crying over spilt milk.
He who says what he likes will hear what he does not like.
He that is angry without a cause shall be pleased without amends.
Law governs man, and reason the law.
Many a one for land takes a fool by the hand.
A picture is worth a thousand words, and yet picture books are for infants.
He who killeth the lion when absent feareth a mouse when present.
Take heed is a fair thing.
The fairer the hostess the fouler the reckoning.
As you make your bed, so must you lie on it.
Truth has a scratched face.
We have all forgot more than we remember.
Obedience is much more seen in little things than in great.
Habbit is a second nature.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
Don't cross a bridge before you come to it.
He must have leave to speak who cannot hold his tongue.
There are spots even in (или on) the sun.
Lose nothing for want of asking.
The italians are wise before the deed; the germans in the deed; the french after the deed.
Pigs might fly lest they had wings.
Suspicions amongst thoughts are like bats amongst birds, they ever fly by twilight. (Francis Bacon)
Raining cats and dogs.
A mother's love never ages.
What's drinking? / A mere pause from thinking. (Lord Byron)
The darkest place is under the candlestick.
Time trieth truth.
Write with the learned, but speak with the vulgar.
What greater crime than loss of time?
Go to bed with lamb and rise with the lark.
A man is known to be mortal by two things, sleep and lust.
He that blows in the dust fills his eyes with it.
If mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
All truths are not to be told.
It's all grist to the mill.
Fish and visitors smell in three days.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving against the Pope.
Go to Jericho.
Better face a danger once than be always in fear.
The man who sleeps with a machete is a fool every night but one.
An old man is a bed full of bones.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck.
I'll put a spoke among your wheels.
An army of stags led by a lion would be more formidable than one of lions led by a stag.
The absent party is always to blame.
Red sky in the morning shepherds warning.
Big boast, small roast.
Man does not live by bread alone.
Every man will have his own turn served.
To sow one's wild oats. (16th century)
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Every why has a wherefore.
It is better to give than to take.
Better to pay and have little than have much and be in debt.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
It is a sorry flock where the ewe bears the bell.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
Soon learn, soon forgotten.
A son is a son 'till he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all her life.
Still waters are the deepest.
Never choose your women or linen by candlelight.
Clogs to clogs in three generations.
So was hir jolly whistel wel y-wette.
To talk without thinking is to shoot without aiming.
Experience is the mother of knowledge.
Better underdone than overdone.
Best to be on the safe side.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
A bad settlement is better than a good lawsuit.
His fore feet though you sever, his grip he'll make good.
It is a good wind that blows a man to the wine.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
All bread is not baked in one oven.
Strike while the iron is hot. or Make hay while the sun shines.
If you fail to plan, then you plan to fail.
Beware of a man of one book.
Eagles don't catch flies.
What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.
We carry our greatest enemies within us.
Cider on beer, never fear; beer upon cider, makes a bad rider.
Into every life a little rain must fall.
A fair death honors the whole life.
Health is wealth.
A prejudice is a vagrant opinion without visible means of support. (Ambrose Bierce)
The strong man and the waterfall channel their own path.
To burn the candle at both ends. (1678)
Mind other men, but most yourself.
The first step to health is to know that we are sick.
Cheaters never prosper.
A fool's head never whitens.
He that talketh what he knoweth, will also talk what he knoweth not. (Francis Bacon)
You can't make bricks without straw.
A good payer will not object to leaving a deposit.
To know where the shoe pinches. (14th century)
Wide lugs an a short tongue is best.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Many stumble at a straw and leap over a block.
Dwarf on a giant's shoulder sees farther of the two.
We are all Adam's children, but silk makes the difference.
It is like talking to the wall.
A solitary man is either a beast or an angel.
Broken watch twice a day shows the correct time.
Better play a small game than to stand out.
Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.
Making a rod for your own back.
It's an ill wind that blows no good.
He is a fool who cannot be angry; but he is a wise man who will not.
What everybody says must be true.
Kisses that are easily obtained are easily forgotten.
Craftiness must have clothes, but truth loves to go naked.
Despair doubles our strength.
A cat has nine lives.
With great learning, a horse, and money, you may travel the world.
While there's life, there's hope.
Go abroad and you'll hear news of home.
Two in distress makes sorrow less.
The Spaniard is a bad servant but a worse master.
A pot of milk is ruined by a drop of poison.
He is wise that is honest.
The pitcher will go to the well once too often.
And still come home to roost!
Cats hide their claws.
Business before pleasure.
Не that goes barefoot must not plant thorns.
Money makes the world go round.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
Don't try to walk before you can crawl.
All of you that intend to ring, you undertake a dangerous thing.
None so deaf as those who will not hear.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
Each cross has its own inscription.
Better die with honour than live with shame.
No time to waste like the present.
The cure is worse than the disease.
That which does not kill you, makes you stronger.
Do not play with edged tools.
Worrying is like sitting in a rocking chair. It gives you something to do but it doesn't get you anywhere.
Nothing is lost in a good market.
Crowns have cares.
Always to court and never to wed is the happiest life that ever was led.
Every dog has his day. (1546)
A joyful evening may follow a sorrowful morning.
Beggars can't be choosers.
The world still he keeps at his staff's end that needs not to borrow and never will lend.
Great minds think alike, but fools seldom differ.
Knock on wood.
Every rose has its thorn.
A man that will fight will find a cudgel in every hedge.
As you sow, so you reap.
A fair wife and a frontier castle breed quarrels.
It never rains but it pours.
Think and thank god.
Charity bread has hard crusts.
Those far, far away are seldom seen for what they really are.
He that lives too fast, goes to his grave too soon.
Do not let sunset find you still nursing your anger.
Let the worst come to the worst.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Lead a pig to the Rhine, it remains a pig.
Words are but wind, but blows unkind.
Wipe wi' the water and wash wi' the towel.
Faith will move mountains.
None knows the weight of another's burden.
No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
It is not work that kills, but worry.
When in motion, to push on is easy.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Blood is thicker than water.
When two agree in their desire, One sparke will set them both on fire.
East or West, home is best.
Better wit than wealth.
All things change and we with them.
Keep something for the sore foot.
By continually striving for the best, one may waste good opportunities.
Keep a thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
There is no good accord where every man would be a lord.
A stumble may prevent a fall.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
It is better to wear out than to rust out.
Life is what you make of it. Always has been, always will be.
Doubt is the beginning not the end of wisdom.
Better a snotty child than his nose wiped off.
The nail that sticks out gets pounded.
Learning makes a man fit company for himself as well as for others.
A crowd is not company.
Kindness brings happiness.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
Ye may drive the deil into a wife, but ye'll ne'er ding him oot o' her.
He that does amiss may do well.
A good archer is not known by his arrows, but his aim.
Whiskey on beer, never fear. Beer on whiskey, mighty risky.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
Reputation is commonly measured by the acre.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
A good friend never offends.
He that nothing questions, nothing learns.
If the truth hurts, you are not living right.
Shit or get off the pot.
If at first you don't succeed try, try and try again.
The mob has many heads, but no brains. (1732)
Must is a king's word.
He who pays the piper calls the tune.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
It is a sad heart that never rejoices.
It's a good horse that never stumbles.
Old streets a glamour hold. (K. W. Baker)
A little of what you fancy does you good.
The best remedy against an ill man, is much ground between.
He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
Garbage in, garbage out.
Life begins at forty.
Не that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
The bull must be taken by the horns.
Words and feathers the wind carries away.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
Variety is the soul of pleasure. (Aphra Behn)
He is an ill husband who is not missed.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse is lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
Money talks, bullshit walks.
It is no time to stoop when the head is off.
The more the merrier.
Death keeps no calendar.
History never repeats itself, but it does rhyme.
A hound's food is in its legs.
The only stupid question is the one that is not asked.
A vain belief, unprofitable.
God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
What is bred in the bone will never come out of the flesh.
Money makes the mare go.
Men make houses, women make homes.
No herb will cure love.
The other side of the road always looks cleanest.
Everyone talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.
First deserve and then desire.
They who love most are least valued.
Curses are like young chickens,
All's well that ends well.
Mighty oaks from little acorns grow.
There is nothing new under the sun.
All things must pass.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
Such beginning, such end.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
Be careful what you wish for, you might just get it.
A lie has no legs, but a scandal has wings.
A house divided cannot stand.
Better bad than without.
Не that knows nothing doubts nothing.
A friend to all is a friend to none.
One thief will not rob another.
Love covers many infirmities.
Ye should be a king of your word.
There's always a calm before a storm.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
A man of courage never wants weapons.
A blind man will not thank you for a looking-glass.
Honesty is the best policy.
Death pays all debts.
Old habits die hard.
He that plants trees loves others besides himself.
Enjoy the present day, trusting little to what tomorrow may bring.
Nothing comes from nothing.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth.
Where McGregor sits, there is the head of the table.
Of two evils choose the least.
Literature is a good staff but a bad crutch.
Wives must be had, be they good or bad.
Sex is like war, both are exciting but neither informative.
Close but no cigar.
Love is full of fear.
All clever men are birds of prey.
Youth never casts for peril.
He that is too proud to ask is too good to receive.
A candle lights others and consumes itself.
The first chapter of fools is to think themselves wise.
Many rats cannot all at once dig a hole for their home.
Confidence begets confidence.
A civil question deserves a civil answer.
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.
Don't eat the calf in the cow's belly.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
Don't empty the baby out with the bath water.
When in doubt, do nothing.
God's a good man.
You can't win them all.You win a few, you lose a few.
An illiterate king is a crowned ass.
He that buyeth magistracy will seek justice.
Where your will is ready your feet are light.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
The face is no index to the heart.
Don't trouble the trouble, until the trouble troubles you.
You can have no more of a cat than her skin.
Chickens have come home to roost.
Too much water drowned the miller.
Don't fall before you're pushed.
Handsome is that handsome does. (1670) (Strauss, 1994 p. 879)
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
The ends justify the means.
Your een's greedier than your guts.
Sometimes clemency is cruelty, and cruelty clemency.
All are not friends who speak one fair.
Westward-ho!
Kisses are keys.
Arthur could not tame woman's tongue.
Fortune is weary to carry one and the same man always.
Give a dog a bad name and he'll live up to it. (or ...he'll repay you for it.)
A sin confessed is half forgiven.
A wise man changes his mind, but a fool never does.
Better a bad excuse, than none at all.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
Poverty is no vice, but an inconvenience.
God blesses a drunk.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
Envy shoots at others and wounds itself.
A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for.
Self trust is the first secret of success.
An empty bag cannot stand upright.
Fashion: a despot whom the wise ridicule and obey. (Ambrose Bierce)
Death is a shadow that always follows the body.
They are rich who have true friends. Тот богат, у кого верные друзья.
A tattler is worse than a thief.
Quarrelsome dogs get dirty coats.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
Idle hands are the devil's playthings.
He who treats himself has a fool for a patient.
Не that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
A man that breaks his word, bids others be false to him.
It is hard to pay for porridge that has been eaten.
Carrying coals to Newcastle.
Desire is nourished by delay.
It is a foolish bird that soils its own nest.
A sound mind in a sound body.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgement.
Far from eye, far from heart. (14th century)
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
Much will have more.
Once bitten, twice shy.
It is height makes Grantham steeple stand awry.
A proverb is the child of experience.
Every one thinks his sack heaviest.
Let him that pays the reckoning choose the lodging.
Present company excepted.
A store is no sore.
An empty vessel makes the most noise.
You never miss a slice from a cut loaf.
Love your neighbor, yet pull not down your hedge.
Meddle not with another man's matter.
The best fish swim near the bottom.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreasefh.
Marry your like.
You need to bait the hook to catch the fish.
There's no fool like an old fool.
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
Anger is shortlived in a good man.
There is but one good mother-in-law and she is dead.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
A fish follows the bait.
Old sheep shouldn't dress in lamb's fashion.
You'll always miss 100% of the [basketball] shots you don't take.
A wise man is a great wonder.
Opportunity seldom knocks twice.
Love begets love.
A losing trade, I assure you, sir; literature is a drug. (George Borrow)
Don't use your hairdryer in the shower, you prat.
Sorrow is always dry.
A straight stick looks crooked in the water.
The love of the wicked is more dangerous than their hatred.
Young men may die, old men must.
Whoever gossips to you will gossip of you.
Beware of Beware of "Had I known”.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained. (Manser, 2007 p. 207)
Well begun is half done.
Health and gaiety foster beauty.
Wha canna gie will little get.
Blind men should not judge of colours.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
Wife and children are bills of charges.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about. (Strauss, 1994 p. 221)
Truth comes back where she has once visited.
The remembrance of past sorrows is joyful.
It takes two blows to make a battle.
Walls have tongues, and hedges ears.
The rich man spends his money, the poor man his strength.
They who have much business must have much pardon.
Ye may be heard where ye're no seen.
The brains of a fox will be of little service if you play with the paw of a lion.
All cats are grey in the dark.
You can't have it both ways.
The difference is wide that the sheets will not decide.
The exception proves the rule.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
Winning isn't everything, it's the only thing.
Burn not your house to scare away the mice.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will break my spirit.
Where old age is evil, youth can learn no good.
There is no flying from fate.
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
There is a thin line between love and hate.
A man is as old as he feels, a woman as old as she looks.
There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry.
We all make mistakes.
Bigger they are, the harder they fall.
Without temptation there is no victory.
If you always say "no', you'll never be married.
Better to kiss a knave than be troubled with him.
A word spoken is past recalling.
Nor pot to piss in.
Keep no more cats than catch mice.
A fox smells its own lair first. Or: A fox smells its own stink first.
A good candle-holder proves a good gamester.
Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no lies.
A stich in time saves nine.
Nothing hurts more than truth.
Turn the cake in the pan.
Idle folks have the least leisure.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
A cold April the barn will fill.
The money you refuse will never do you good.
Children suck the mother when they are young and the father when they are old.
Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest.
It is a sin against hospitality to open the doors and shut up the countenance.
The air of a window is as the stroke of a cross-bow.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Neither fish, flesh nor good red herring.
Mend or end.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone.
They that are bound must obey.
Не that loses his honesty has nothing else to lose.
A dimple in the chin, your living comes in; a dimple in the cheek, your living to seek.
First try and then trust.
A man may woo where he will, but he will wed where his luck lies.
Without danger we cannot get beyond danger.
The day is lost on which you did not laugh.
A burden of one's own choice is not felt.
An empty belly hears nobody.
There is no better looking-glass than an old friend.
Love is blind.
Wives maun be had whether gude or bad.
False friends are worse than open enemies. Коварный друг опаснее заклятого врага.
Second thoughts are the best.
When all men say you are an ass it is time to bray.
Where vice goes before, vengeance follows after.
Every cook praises his own broth.
The foule Toade hath a faire stone in his head.
A little wind kindles, much puts out the fire.
Ask not what your country can do for you ask what you can do for your country.
Make not your sail too big for your ballast.
Never be boastful; someone may pass who knew you as a child.
If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all.
A man without a wife is but half a man.
Do when ye may, or suffer ye the nay, in love 'tis the way.
Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet... (Rudyard Kipling)
Do not make me kiss and you will not make me sin.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
Old saws speak truth.
History repeats itself.
Your thrift's as gude as the profit o' a yeld hen.
You will not rise to the occasion, you will default to the level of your training.
Fools are weatherwise, and those that are weatherwise are seldom otherwise.
Adventures are to the adventurous.
He begins to die that quits his desires.
A leopard cannot change its spots.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
Prosperity makes friends, and adversity tries them. Успех находит друзей, а горе испытывает их.
Train up a child in the way he should go.
Beauty is eloquent even when silent.
Variety is the spice of life.
There is nothing more precious than time and nothing more prodigally wasted.
It's raining cats and dogs.
Beauty draws more than oxen.
Raw leather will stretch.
Marriage halves our griefs, doubles our joys, and quadruples our expenses.
Accidents will happen in the best families.
Advantage is a better soldier than rashness.
Much ado and little help.
He gives twice who gives in a trice.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
Without justice, courage is weak.
Provide for the worst, the best will save itself.
Cowards die many times, but a brave man only dies once.
Death devours lambs as well as sheep.
A room without books is a body without soul.
How can the foal amble if the horse and mare trot?
To err is human, to forgive divine.
Examine well the counsel that favours your desire.
If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.
He that sows the wind shall reap the whirlwind.
Good fences make good neighbours.
Beauty is truth, truth beauty (John Keats)
It is ill jesting with sharp tools.
It is not what is he, but what has he.
The wit of one man, the wisdom of many.
Better a little chiding than a good deal of heartache.
Things past cannot be recalled.
Little enemies and little wounds must not be despised.
When it rains, it pours.
Bob's your uncle.
Misfortune is not that which can be avoided, but that which cannot.
Take heed you find not what you do not seek.
Better spare to have of your own, than ask of other men.
Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.
Hell has no fury like a woman scorned.
Good wine needs no bush.
A wise man cares not for what he cannot have.
Those have most power to hurt us that we love. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Much science, much sorrow.
Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns.
A friend is best found in adversity.
There is a black sheep in every flock.
Money speaks sense in a language all nations understand. (Aphra Behn)
Women's counsel is cold.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
Time and tide wait for no man.
May as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
The heaviest baggage for a traveler is an empty wallet.
He hath good judgement that relieth not wholly on his own.
Old chains gall less than new.
Though old and wise, yet still advise.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it comes home broken at last.
Each stain comes to sight on a horse that is white.
Harp not on that string.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Imiation is the highest form of flattery.
The best way to see divine light is to put out your own candle.
Buying and selling is but winning and losing.
A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool.
Away goes the devil if he finds the door shut against him.
Laughter is the best medicine.
A little body often harbours a great soul.
Know thyself.
The worse luck now, the better another time.
A son is a son till he gets him a wife, but a daughter's a daughter the rest of your life.
Circumstances alter cases.
The beauty of things lies in the mind that contemplates it.
If you want peace, you must prepare for war.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A man may say too much, even upon the best subjects.
It takes great wisdom to play the fool.
He that has the spice, may season as he list.
Work expands so as to fill the time available.
Every rule has its exception.
However far a man goes, he must start from his own door.
Children and fools must not play with edged tools.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end. (Strauss, 1994 p. 600)
Like a red rag to a bull.
There is not the thickness of a sixpence between good and evil.
The camel asking for horns lost also his ears.
Between promising and performing a man may marry his daughter.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
An Englishman's house (home) is his castle.
Young folk may dee, auld folk maun dee.
Many women, many words; many geese, many turds.
Rich men seem happy, great and wise, all which the good man only is.
You get what you pay for.
Truth has always a sure bottom.
If you lie down with dogs, you'll get up with fleas.
Danger and delight grow on one stalk.
There are no small parts, only small actors.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
That sick man is not to be pitied who has his cure in his sleeve.
The child is father to the man.
If you're so smart, why aren't you rich?
Ambition makes people diligent.
One cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
When the cow has been sold with firmness you may relax for a while and go for a better one.
He that shippeth the devil must make the best of him.
If you want a thing done, go. If not, send. The shortest answer is doing.
Luck has a slender anchorage.
A change is as good as a rest.
Education begins a gentleman, conversation completes him.
Tomorrow is a new day.
Beware of "Had I known".
Let sleeping dogs lie.
The afterthought is good for nought, except it be to catch blind horses with.
Poor Trust is dead; Bad Pay killed him.
Each to his own taste.
God's a good man. (William Shakespeare)
Old friends and old wine are best.
Clothes make the man.
The noisy fowler catches no birds.
He that woos a widow must woo her day and night.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
Never fall out with your bread and butter.
The day is short and the work is long. (15th century)
In the long run we are all dead.
Time himself is bald. (William Shakespeare)
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
Why, then, do you walk as if you had swallowed a ramrod?
You lose some... and you win some... and some you don't even bother to play.
The citizen is at his business before the sun rises.
Wake not a sleeping lion.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
What is not in a man cannot come out of him surely.
When one door shuts another opens.
Actions speak louder than words.
A leap year is never a good sheep year.
Don't mend what ain't broken.
Think globally, act locally.
Through thick and thin, both over Hill and Plain.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
Far fowls have fair feathers.
One man no man.
Practice makes perfect.
Keep it simple, stupid. (KISS)
Proportion your expenses to what you have, not what you expect.
The stick bends but does not break.
As welcome as water in one's shoes.
'Tis death to us.
It early pricks that will be a thorn.
Thinking is very far from knowing.
If ignorance is bliss, why aren't more people happy?
Не dances well to whom fortune pipes.
He that puts on a public gown must put off a private person.
Lawyers' gowns are lined with the wilfulness of their clients.
If you can't be good, be careful.
The show must go on.
The absent saint gets no candle.
Like lavender, grow sweeter as you grow older.
A lean fee is a fit reward for a lazy clerk.
An exception to every rule.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
He that enquires all opinions, comes ill speed.
Truth will out.
Old age doesn't protect from folly.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
Ye'll be hang'd and I'll be harried.
Ask and you shall receive.
Every coin has two sides.
Fly 'bout the ears of the old cur.
Who comes uncalled, sits unserved.
Discretion is the better part of valour.
A good friend is my nearest relation. Хороший друг – мой ближайший родственник.
Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them.
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
They that think no ill are soonest beguiled.
Some days you get the bear, other days the bear gets you.
The more furrows the more corn.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
Murder will out.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
The biter is sometimes bit.
Wise men make proverbs but fools repeat them.
Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
A maid who laughs is half taken.
Needs must when the devil drives.
There is a remedy for everything except death.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Friends are thieves of time. (17th century)
The belly teaches all arts.
As slippery as an eel. (15th century)
Learning makes a good man better and a bad man worse.
No good building without good foundation.
Let him who is without sin cast the first stone.
Please the eye and plague the heart.
Ye're black aboot the mou' for want o' kissing.
Clean as God's fingertips.
Even a worm will turn.
Out of sight, out of mind.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
After a typhoon there are pears to gather up.
All frills and no knickers.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
Scratch my back and I will scratch yours.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
You should lie down with the lamb and rise with the lark.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted.
Business first, pleasure after.
Still he fisheth that catcheth one.
A kingdom is lost for want of a shoe.
Better hand loose than in an ill tethering.
A hungry man is an angry man.
God help the rich, the poor can look after themselves.
Life is short and time is swift.
Silence is golden.
You will never see good and bad to agree.
Hospitality: the virtue which induces us to feed and lodge certain persons who are not in need of food and lodging. (Ambrose Bierce)
Dead men tell no tale.
If every bird take back its own feathers, you'll be naked.
When he arrived at the banks of the Rubicon, which divides Cisalpine Gaul from the rest of Italy ... he stopped to deliberate.... At last he cried out: "The die is cast" and immediately passed the river.
Something given that way.
A watched pot never boils.
Don't spit into the wind.
Between two stools one falls to the ground.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
Do no business with a kinsman.
The village slatternly wench has the form of a dove, the heart of a fox, and the mind of an toad.
One kindness is the price of another.
Moche Crye and no Wull.
He that plays with cats must expect to be scratched.
There is safety in numbers.
Perfect friendship cannot be without equality.
Everything's eventual.
Hope is grief's best music.
Laugh before breakfast and you'll cry before lunch.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
Don't do all you can, spend all you have, believe all you hear, or tell all you know.
If youth knew what age would crave, it would both get and save.
A merry heart goes all the way.
Man proposes but God disposes.
Within a stone's throw of it.
A dog is a man's best friend.
Nature, to be commanded, must be obeyed. (Francis Bacon)
He makes a rod for his own back. (14th century)
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
No root, no fruit.
Never make threats you cannot carry out.
The greatest step is that out of doors.
Eat, drink, be merry, for tomorrow we die.
Never love with all your heart, it only ends in breaking.
When a man's coat is threadbare it is easy to pick a hole in it.
He that cannot do better, must be a monk.
The bait hides the hook.
Character is easier kept than recovered.
A young man idle, an old man needy.
The bird is known by his note, the man by his words.
Appearances are deceptive.
The joy of the heart makes the face fair.
Anger begins with folly, and ends with repentance.
Perverts the Prophets, and purloins the Psalms.
More haste, less speed.
Never step over one duty to perform another.
He that sows trusts in god.
One can love and be wise.
Innocent actions carry their warrant with them.
All happiness is in the mind.
A horn spoon holds no poison.
A friend cannot be known in prosperity nor an enemy be hidden in adversity.
Love laughs at locksmiths.
He that is at ease seeks dainties.
Good clothes open all doors.
Brain is better than brawn.
The coast is clear. (17th century)
When a friend asks there is no tomorrow. Для друга не существует «завтра».
The descent to hell is easy.
Let my lamp at midnight hour be seen in some high lonely tower.
No man is content with his lot.
Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.
Young saint, old devil. (15th century)
Through thick and thin, both over bank and bush.
Anger is often more hurtful than the injury that caused it.
The ship that will not obey the helm will have to obey the rocks.
He that has no fools, knaves, or beggars in his family was begot by a flash of lightning.
Don't trudge mud into the house of love.
A true friend does sometime venture to be offensive.
Close only counts in horseshoes and hand-grenades.
Grasp all, lose all.
Better the devil you know (than the one you don't).
Many a little makes a mickle.
No man's religion ever survived his morals.
Do not halloo until you are out of the wood.
The best things come in small packages.
A time and a place for everything.
But an unwatched kettle over boils.
Good to begin well, better to end well.
Home is where you hang your hat.
Black will take no other hue.
Where god builds a church, the devil will build a chapel.
An abundance of money ruins youth.
He who eats until he is ill must fast until he is well.
A baker's dozen.
When it thunders in March, it brings sorrow.
No man is an island.
He that blames would buy.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
The last benefit is most remembered.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
Heaven hath no rage like love to hatred turned, Nor Hell a fury like a woman scorned.
Fools and children tell the truth.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.
Old be, or young die.
The short and the long of it.
No man can play the fool so well as the wise man.
There's many a good cock come out of a tattered bag.
Be not deceived with the first appearance of things, for show is not substance.
Zeal without knowledge is like fire without light.
People with wax heads shouldn't walk in the sun.
You never miss the water till the well runs dry.
Death when it comes will have no denial.
Forewarned is fore armed.
No man has a worse friend than he brings from home.
He who lives according to nature will never be poor.
Never lend that thing you most need.
Avoid evil and it will avoid thee.
Where there's muck there's brass.
Never say die.
All covet, all lose.
The last straw breaks the camel's back.
Who falls short in the head must be long in the heels.
Do not dwell in a city where a horse does not neigh nor a dog bark.
Riches serve a wise man but command a fool.
Proffer'd service stinks.
Success is a journey not a destination.
Discretion in speech is more important than eloquence.
An open door may tempt a saint.
It is a bold mouse that nestles in the cat's ear.
You don't get nothing for nothing.
Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit.
Give never the wolf the wether to keep.
Who is so deaf or so blind as he that willfully will neither hear nor see?
Cobbler, stick to thy last.
Не is not poor that has little, but he that desires much.
You shall never want rope enough.
By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn.
Music has charms to soothe the savage beast.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Time flies.
There's no bad weather, there are bad clothes.
A good lawyer, an evil neighbour.
One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
Two is company, three is none. (19th century)
There is a remedy for everything, could men find it.
Just go with it.
Witches and harlots come out at night.
Too many arguments destroyed marriage negotiations.
Speaking of the devil.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
The ant had wings to her hurt.
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.
The grey mare is the better horse.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
Rome was not built in a day.
You cannot make people honest by an act of parliament.
One volunteer is worth two pressed men.
A flow will have an ebb.
He who builds by the roadside has many masters.
Catch not a shadow and lose the substance.
Pride comes before a fall.
Eggs and oaths are soon broken.
Breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dine like a pauper.
Blind is the bookless man.
Nature, time, and patience are three great physicians.
The anvil fears no blows.
Old Lady of Threadneedle Street.
No better than you should be.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
Put your toong in your purse.
Never ask pardon before you are accused.
When ye ca' the dog out o' your ain kail-yaird, dinna ca't into mine.
Advice is least heeded when most needed.
No risk, no gain.
The door swings both ways.
None so blind as those who won't see.
The longest day must have an end.
The rest is silence. (William Shakespeare, Hamlet)
Nothing succeeds like success.
Do not be in a hurry to tie what you cannot untie.
Damned if you do, damned if you don't.
Confidence begets confidence. (Strauss 1994, p. 187)
Paddle your own canoe.
It is sin to steal a pin.
He that lives in a glass house must not throw stones.
Drive your business, do not let it drive you.
He is wise that has wit enough for his own affairs.
Friends tie thier purse with a cobweb thread.
As high as Heaven, as deep as Hell.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
Well goes the case when wisdom counsels.
A man of words and not of deeds is like a garden full of weeds.
For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil.
Some are very busy and yet do nothing.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
Never write what you dare not sign.
One acre of performance, is worth twenty of the land of promise.
God is dead.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
A bold attempt is half of success.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
Ye'll neither dee for your wit nor be drowned for a warlock.
As proud as a peacock.
He that would be old long, must be old betimes.
Promise is debt.
Short acquaintance brings repentance.
Don't think to hunt two hares with one hound.
He that after sinning mends, recommends himself to god.
Wide ears and short tongue are the best.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a sword.
A mans worst enemies are often those of his own house.
With friends like these, you don't need enemies.
A night with Venus and a life with mercury.
There are none so blind as they who do not want to see.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
Advise none to marry or go to war.
A prophet is not recognized in his own land.
Manners make often fortunes.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the woods.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
Seek that which may be found.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
Let well alone.
Great cry and little wool.
Better to ask the way than to go astray.
Young people don't know what age is, and old people forget what youth was.
A merry heart makes a long life.
A poor man's debt makes a great noise.
He that walketh with the virtuous is one of them.
Make love not war.
Wrath often consumes what goodness husbands.
The rich man may dine when he will, the poor man when he may.
Burning the candle at both ends.
First come, first served.
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
Give her bells and let her fly.
Always sample a maidens charms before the wedding.
The most manifest sign of wisdom is a continual cheerfulness.
Home is home, though it be never so homely.
Don't cross a bridge until you come to it.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
Ye'll no sell your hen in a rainy day.
If the hill will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet will go to the hill. (Francis Bacon)
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
A cat with a straw tail keeps away from fire.
When the sword of rebellion is drawn, the sheath should be thrown away.
Men get wealth and women keep it.
Though last, not least in love.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
He laughs best who laughs last.
It takes a village to raise a child.
Talking a mile a minute.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
Pin not your faith on another's sleeve.
The eyes are the window of the soul.
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone.
Beer before liquor, you'll never be sicker, but liquor before beer and you're in the clear.
All ask if a man be rich, no one if he be good.
One swallow does not make a summer.
If you want a thing well done, do it yourself. (1616)
Like father, like son.
Many a mickle makes a muckle.
He who has carried the calf will be able by and by to carry the ox.
A trapped cat becomes a lion.
You can't escape your destiny.
A thorn in the flesh.
It is a strange desire to seek power and to lose liberty. (Francis Bacon)
Absence is a shrew.
Facts are stubborn things.
The best goods are cheapest in the end. (Kelly, 1859 p, 95)
Physician heal thyself.
Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.
Fight fire with fire.
After a storm comes a calm.
That government is best which governs least.
When ye are weel, haud yoursel sae.
He is my friend that succoreth me, not he that pitieth me.
What's in your wame's not in your testament.
If you were born to be shot, you'll never be hung.
It's never too late to mend.
It is not the size of the dog in the fight that counts, but the fight in the dog that wins.
All good things come to an end.
No living man all things can.
Once a thief, always a thief.
Fourty Two is the answer.
Only two things in life are certain; death and taxes.
Friends are like fiddle strings, they must not be screwed too tight.
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
Judge each day not by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.
Favour will surely perish as life.
The best laid plans of mice and men often go awry.
Blood will out.
He who works begins well; he who economises ends better.
There is an exception to every rule.
He declares himself guilty who justifies himself before accusation.
Once a drunkard always a drunkard.
All will come out in the washing.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
A shady lane breeds mud.
It was the last straw that broke the camel's back.
After-wit is dear bought.
Perfect Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance. (a.k.a The six P's)
Just do it.
Ain't over till the fat lady sings.
Не lives long that lives well.
No mischief but a woman or a priest is at the bottom of it.
Master your passions or your passions will master you.
People only throw stones at trees with fruit on them.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Coin a phrase.
Say something nice or say nothing at all.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
A golden key can open any door.
Use it up, wear it out, make do with, or do without.
Two wrongs don't make a right, but three lefts do.
An oven and mill are nurseries of news.
Who eats his cock alone must saddle his horse alone.
Make love like war.
Faint heart ne'er won fair lady.
It takes all sorts to make a world.
The best is cheapest.
Fools build houses and wise men live in them.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
God helps those who help themselves.
If you keep your mouth shut, you won't put your foot in it.
Rich folk have many friends.
Give a man rope enough and he will hang himself.
All is not gold that glitters.
From the crown of our head to the sole of our foot.
If you can't join them, beat them.
Better be safe than sorry.
Behind every great man there's a great woman.
No man so wise but he may be deceived.
You can't free a fish from water.
Passing the Rubicon.
Scratch a Russian and you will find a Tartar.
Fair words will not make the pot boil.
Remorse is lust's dessert.
The nail that sticks up will be hammered down. (Whatling, 2009) From the Japanese, "deru kugi wa utareru."
When your only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.
He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
Money is the root of all evil.
Time is of the esscence.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
Harp not for ever on the same string.
Seeing is believing.
Men talk only to conceal the mind.
A little string will tie a title bird.
The offender never pardons.
A man without reason is a beast in season.
Put your money where your mouth is.
One father is more than a hundred schoolmasters.
Dead news, like dead love, has no phoenix in its ashes.
Have you any Spanish?
Where drums beat, laws are dumb.
Love lasts as long as money endures.
O, God, if there be a God, save my soul if I have a soulǃ (A soldier before the battle of Blenheim in 1704)
You cannot make a crab walk straight.
It ain't over till it's over.
The start of a journey should never be mistaken for success.
The customer is always right.
A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison.
It is not the beard that makes the philosopher.
Smell a rat.
What bread men break is broken to them again.
A man is as old as he feels himself to be.
Two is a company; three is a crowd.
The rich knows not who is his friend.
Kings have many ears and many eyes.
Jack a dull boy.
Fretting cares make grey hairs. (Strauss, 1994.
A man among children will long be a child; a child among men will soon be a man.
A great book is a great evil.
Не that seeks trouble never misses.
Easy come easy go.
A still tongue makes a wise head.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
Whatsoever was the father of the disease, an ill diet was the mother.
Better to have than wish.
As the old cock crows, so does the young.
A bad shearer never had a good sickle.
If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain.
Ye're like a bad liver--the last day there's aye maist to do wi' ye.
When you hear hoofbeats, think horses, not zebras.
All rising to great place is by a winding stair. (Francis Bacon)
Less is more.
Eat leeks in march, garlic in may, all the rest of the year the doctors may play.
Times change.
A poor beauty finds more lovers than husbands.
We must take the bad with the good.
Rules are made to be broken.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby.
There is no smoke without fire.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
Money for old rope.
All hat and no cattle.
No summer, but has its winter.
Energy is Eternal Delight. (William Blake)
Yourself first, others afterward.
Give credit where credit is due.
An old wrinkle never wears out.
A cheerful wife is a joy of life.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
One good turn deserves another.
Bigger, the better.
Everything comes to him who waits.
Dog eat dog.
Lead by example.
First things first.
Maidens should be meek till they be married.
Better to be envied than pitied.
A snow year, a rich year.
There is small revenge in words, but words may be greatly revenged.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
Everyone puts his fault on the times.
He that is worst may still hold the candle.
It is a proud horse that will not bear his own provender.
He complains wrongfully at the sea that suffer shipwreck twice.
Misery loves company.
Give the devil his due.
A fool will laugh when he is drowning.
Times change and we with them.
Life is sweet.
Bread is the staff of life, but beer's life itself.
Our friends are our mirrors and show us ourselves.
Although shrimps may dance around, they do not leave the river.
Long fingers count out money.
Best things in life are free.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.
Danger is next neighbor to security.
Why worry? If you worry - you die. If you don't worry - you'll still die. So why worry?
No rest for the wicked.
Seek and ye shall find.
If something can go wrong, it will.
He that comes first to the hill may sit where he will.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
God cures and the physician takes the fee.
The more cost, the more honour.
Не who would catch fish must not mind getting wet.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
In at one ear and out at the other. (14th century)
The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom. (William Blake)
God looks to clean hands, not to full ones.
You may poke a man's fire after you've known him for seven years.
Truth seeks no corners.
A pound of care will not pay an ounce of debt.
A full cup must be carried steadily.
He that will steal an egg will steal an ox.
To dead men and absent there are no friends left.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
Eat with pleasure, drink with measure.
America is God's melting-pot. (Israel Zangwill)
Ever since we wear clothes, we know not each other.
Don't cross your bridges before you come to them.
Ye wad marry a midden for the muck.
It should be better to blame friends at a distance.
An enterprizing foole needs little wit.
A good man is hard to find.
In the end, a man's motives are second to his accomplishments.
Understand is better than stare.
A bully is always a coward.
Bad news travels fast.
Many drops make a shower.
Time heals all wounds.
Good fame is better than a good face.
There is no royal road to learning.
It is best to be on the safe side.
Life's a bleach and then you dye.
In the deepest water is the best fishing. (1616)
Many hands make light work.
Nurture and good manners makes man.
Extremes meet.
When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the devil.
Mind what you must live by.
God is on the side of the strongest battalions. (Kin 1955, p. 255)
Appearances can be deceptive.
Wise men o sittin.
The greater the sinner, the greater the saint.
No man can serve two masters.
Truth fears no trial.
A good conscience is a continual feast.
Take care of your pennies and your pounds will take care of your heirs and barristers.
Medicines be not meat to live by.
Once a use and ever a custom.
Work for nought makes folks dead lazy.
The good is the enemy of the best.
Evil comes to us by ells and goes away by inches.
Grace will last, beauty will blast.
Marry in lent, and you'll learn to repent.
Family before Friendship.
Fresh pork and new wine kill a man before his time.
A merry host makes merry guests.
High places have their precipices.
Trust god and keep your powder dry.
Poverty is an enemy to good manners.
Never wear a brown hat in Friesland.
It is good to have a hatch before the door.
You may find the worst enemy or best friend in yourself.
Length begets loathing.
Ye ca' hardest at the nail that drives fastest.
Abundance maketh poor.
Many dogs may easily worry one hare.
There is no time like the present.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
Accidents will happen in the best families. (19th century)
Let every vat stand upon its own bottom. (William Bullein)
Young men's knocks old men feel.
Many a smale maketh a grate.
Look after the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves.
Ambition makes people scorn rustic living.
The belly carries legs.
Good words cost nought.
A dog will not howl if you beat him with a bone. (1659)
We never know the worth of water until the well is dry.
The best is often the enemy of the good.
The first step is usually the hardest.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Neck or nothing.
As love thinks no evil, so envy speaks no good.
Man learns little from success, but much from failure.
Keep good men company, and you shall be of the number.
Despair gives courage to a coward.
Keep counsel of thyself first.
Cold pudding settles love.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
If it jams, force it. If it breaks, it probably needed fixing anyway.
If life gives you lemons, make lemonade.
It's better to be silent and thought a fool, than to speak up and remove all doubt.
He that lives most dies most.
It's better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.
Everything is good in its season.
If you're in a hole, stop digging.
Want is the whetstone of wit.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
A drunken man is always dry.
First impressions are most lasting.
Green leaves and brown leaves fall from the same tree.
What the church doesn't take, the exchequer carries away.
The longest at the fire soonest finds cold.
Laugh till you cry, sorrow till you die.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
It is easy to be wise after the event.
A crown's no cure for a headache.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
He that marries ere he be wise, will die ere he thrive.
The love of money and the love of learning rarely meet.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1044)
Fools gawp at masterpieces - wise men set out to outdo masterpieces.
A house well-furnished makes a woman wise.
A little pot is easily hot.
No gain without pain.
Hate not at the first harm.
He plays best that wins.
The cobbler should stick to his last.
There's no place like home.
Law is a lickpenny.
Sometimes people who live in glass houses throw stones because their windows are painted.
If you yourself can do it, attend no other's help or hand.
Faith without works is dead.
Never let the sun go down on your anger.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
It's better to light a candle than curse the darkness.
Many things are lost for want of asking.
An hour may destroy what an age was building.
Bad penny always turns up.
Bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Blue are the faraway hills.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Money is like muck, not good except it be spread. (Francis Bacon)
It is better to begin in the evening than not at all.
Take a hair of the dog that has bitten you.
Anger dies quickly with a good man.
Honey of Hybla.
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you.
Whom we love best, to them we can say least.
Pluck not a courtesy in the bud.
Every little helps.
Conscience cannot be compelled.
Wonder at your auld shoon when ye hae gotten your new.
When a ewie's drowned she's dead.
While the doctors consult, the patient dies.
Ask God for what man can give, and you may get it.
Do as you would be done by.
Spring is when you feel like whistling even with a shoe full of slush.
A lock is better than suspicion.
There is luck in odd numbers.
Don't worry, be happy.
Knowledge is power.
It is profound ignorance that inspires the dogmatic tone.
The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
Time flies when you're having fun.
It is hard to sail over the sea in an egg-shell.
A man cannot eat his cake and haue it stil: / That may he, vnlesse his retention be ill.
Let every sheep hang by his own shank.
A word to the wise is enough.
There's always a deep breath before a plunge.
There is no fool than an old fool.
It takes two to lie, one to lie and one to listen.
Truth needs not the ornament of many words.
He that asketh a courtesy promiseth a kindness.
He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.
The heart sees farther than the head.
War is too important to be left to the generals.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Vice is often clothed in virtue's habit.
Buy cheap, sell dearǃ (Thomas Lodge)
God heals, and the doctor takes the fee. (1640)
Не that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
No worst pestilence than a familiar enemy.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
One funeral makes many.
Common sense ain't common.
Every ass loves to hear himself bray.
A sharp stomach makes short devotion.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
Books think for me. (Charles Lamb)
God gives his anger by weight, but his pity without measure.
Time is a file that wears and makes no noise.
Once a priest, always a priest.
Two things prolong your life: A quiet heart and a loving wife.
Bashfulness is an enemy to poverty.
If you rock the cradle empty, then you shall have babies plenty.
He had need rise early who would please everybody.
'tis money that begets money.
I'll make the fur
Laugh and the world laughs with you. Cry and you cry alone.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
Doing is better than saying.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Precepts teach, examples move.
A barking dog never bites.
April is the cruellest month.
Joy shared, joy doubled: sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
Let the bait hide the hook.
A beggar can never be bankrupt.
Too far East is West.
It is ill prizing of green barley.
Youth and age will never agree. (16th century)
Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny of tar.
Eat not cherries with the great.
He that seeks a horse or a wife without fault, has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed.
Good swimmers are often drowned.
If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
Salvage Something From Every Setback.
With customs we live well, but laws undo us.
When in doubt, do nought.
He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody.
Good company on the road is the shortest cut.
Every day is a new beginning.
The best payment is on the peck bottom.
It takes two to tango.
There is a time to speak and a time to be silent.
All temptations are found either in hope or fear.
What we do willingly is easy.
The more thou stir it the worse it will be.
An acre of performance is worth the whole world of promise.
Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork.
No news is good news.
Jack of all trades and master of None. (18th century)
While the grass grows the horse starves.
When everyone takes care of himself, care is taken of all.
A bellyful is one of meat, drink, or sorrow.
Enough is enough.
He that laughs when he is alone will make sport in company.
A cheerful wife is the spice of life.
Bait the hook well and the fish will bite.
Happiness takes no account of time.
He that cheateth in small things is a fool, but in great things is a rogue.
Life is ten percent what happens to you and ninety percent how you respond to it.
A live dog is better than a dead lion.
Might is right. (14th century)
Sunday clears away the rust of the whole week. (Joseph Addison)
Laziness goes so slowly that poverty overtakes it.
Man, woman, and devil, are the three degrees of comparison.
Big-endians and small-endians.
The worse the passage the more welcome the port.
You have to break a few eggs to make an omelette.
Treat them mean, keep them keen.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
Walk the talk. (Manser, 2007)
One grain of sand can tip the scale.
All are not merry that dance lightly.
Sound advice had better be welcome.
Better never to begin than never to make an end.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
Revenge is a dish that should be eaten cold.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
Don't try to be someone you're not.
Ye're like the miller's dog--ye lick your lips ere the pock be opened.
A pig never smells its own stink.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death; Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the Devil.
Hail, fellow, well met.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Custom without reason is but ancient error.
When money speaks the world is silent.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
A man's best fortune or his worst is a wife.
Everyone must row with the oars they have.
Self-praise is nno praise at all.
Ye canna mak a silk purse out o' a sow's lug.
A bird may be known by its song.
It is a long lane that has no turning.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
A fool always rushes to the fore.
A babe in the woods.
He helps little that helps not himself.
Goose, gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing. (Strauss, 1994 p. 104)
There is no time like the present. (18th century) (Citatboken)
Better wed over the mixen than over the moor.
Love is stronger than any addiction, baby. Hell, it is one. - Madea.
A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home.
Poison is poison though it comes in a golden cup.
A volunteer is worth twenty pressed men.
Hear twice before you speak once.
Good men suffer much.
A trodden path bears no grass.
Possession is nine tenths of the law.
Tread on the ball, live to spend all.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance,
Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.
Never spur a willing horse.
We are all in this together.
An ill wind that blows no one any good.
Не that promises too much means nothing.
If you swear you will catch no fish.
