Money's for buying and a horse is for riding.
A set of white teeth does not indicate a pure heart.
Time discloses the truth.
The earth has ears, the wind has a voice.
The fox will catch you with cunning, and the wolf with courage.
The news of a good deed travels far, but the news of a bad one travels even farther.
The devil leads him by the nose who the dice too often throws.
Observe your enemies, for they first find your faults.
No more teachers, no more books, no more teacher's dirty looks.
The belly has no ears.
The shirt of death does not have pockets.
If you promise something it is a debt that you have to repay.
When hyenas go away jackals rejoice.
All is well that ends well.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
Honesty and kindness enhance every beauty.
Carnival on the balcony, easter by the fire.
He who likes to eat cows hump will not fail to grow fat.
A stranger's soul is like a dark forest.
A mill and a wife are always in want of something.
If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain.
He who breaks his word shall through his word be broken.
You don't need a candle to look for a fool.
If you are going to steal horses, steal thoroughbreds.
The cat would eat fish, but would not wet her feet.
Sickness soaks the purse.
Every eye has its look.
The sun does not forget a village just because it is small.
Live and learn, die and forget it all.
The house is burning and Grandma is combing her hair.
Io get what we want, we must accept some things we don't want. No rose without a thorn.
Part with your head, but not with your secret.
Good-ware make a quick market.
Where the tongue slips, it speaks the truth.
When you are eating with a blind man, do not touch his hand.
A man without a wife is a man without a house.
One generation builds the street on which the next will walk.
Mountain does not meet mountain, but a face meets another face.
Young twigs may be bent, but not old trees.
A fool may chance to put something into a wise man's head.
When planning for a year, plant corn. When planning for a decade, plant trees. When planning for life, train and educate people.
One generation plants the trees, the next eats the fruit.
He that gives bad counsel suffers most by it.
A strong man is remembered on the day of the fight, and a gluttony on the day pounded yam is surplus.
Where there are too many cooks the soup will be too salty.
Who is in the right fears, who is in the wrong hopes.
Open your door to a good day and prepare yourself for a bad one.
Anyone who plants a tree before they die has not lived in vain.
If all pulled in one direction, the world would keel over.
Diligent youth makes easy age.
Better something than nothing at all.
The proof of the pudding lies in the eating of it.
It is a fine thing to die for one's fatherland, but a still finer thing to live for it.
When your drunk the old woman tastes like a virgin..
Poverty is not a crime, but it's better not to show it.
What mare's nest hast thou found?
Not turning his hand around for it.
Showing off other people's feathers.
There is nothing so good for the inside of a man as the outside of a horse.
Business is a two-way street.
The fried dove/pigeon (or chicken) will not fly into your mouth.
Soft water can break the hardest stone.
The betrothed of good is evil; the betrothed of life is death; the betrothed of love is divorce.
Woo the widow whilst she is in weeds.
The devil sups with the tax collector.
A light purse makes a heavy heart.
Listen to that which is openly and seriously spoken.
He that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He who lives in the attic knows where the roof leaks.
With one foot in the grave.
Under capitalism man exploits man; under socialism the reverse is true.
When you are an anvil be patient; when a hammer, strike.
If you cry and receive someone to help you cry more then you cry more.
Some roads aren't meant to be travelled alone.
A fool carveth a piece of his heart to every one that sits near him.
Better to be squinting than blind.
If you're going to rest under the sun, it's better to keep walking.
Appetite comes while eating.
When the sun shines on thee, thou needest not care for the moon.
If your vision is for a year plant wheat, if you vision is for a decade plant trees, and if your vision is for a lifetime plant people.
The malicious cow disturbs the whole herd.
Popularity is the small change of glory.
No merriment in the seat of justice.
Of the dead, nothing but good.
When the tree falls, any child can climb it.
Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health.
Empty vessels make most noise.
Lay it on thick and some of it will stick.
Who is a dog will get dog's pay.
Be a friend to thyself, and others will befriend thee.
Every disadvantage has its advantage.
"Pátria Amada” (Beloved Homeland) is the title of the national anthem of Mozambique.
A sturdy beggar should hae a stout nae-sayer.
Who can escape envy and blame, that speaks or writes for public fame?
It is good sheltering under an old hedge.
How many daily read the Word, and yet from vice are not deterred.
Words don't will the sack.
Warm a frozen snake and it will be the first to bite you.
A heavy load should be borne together as well as a light load.
Light is half a companion.
Don't tell your secret to your friend; he will tell it to his friend.
The fox which was caught in a snare.
What's sport to you is death to us.
Do not ask questions of fairy tales.
Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling.
The pot reproaching the kettle, the side of both is black.
If a man leaves little children behind him, it is as if he did not die.
The first camel in the train holds everyone up, but it is the last which gets the beating.
Не jests at scars that never felt a wound.
When one dog barks, another will follow suit.
Every one should sweep before his own door.
If we knew where death resided, we would never stay there.
Day and night cannot dwell together.
For rice cakes, go to the rice-cake maker.
See Naples, and then die! For the smell you find there.
Seldom lies the dell dead by the dyke side.
Though your bloodhound be gentle, don't bite him on the lip.
To place yourself under an obligation is to sell your liberty.
Time past never returns.
It's never too late to die or get married.
Twelve highlanders and a bagpipe make a rebellion.
Patience, money and time bring all things to past.
The baby who doesn't cry isn't nursed.
You are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think.
Great estates may venture more; little boats must keep near shore.
Everyone who is successful must have dreamed of something.
When peaches flower and ripen, days and nights have the same length.
Quicker by taking more time.
There come as many calf-skins to market as ox-skins.
According to the custom of Aragon, good service, bad guerdon.
Friends and mules fail us in hard places.
What one fool can ensnare, not a 1000 sages can fix.
Gambling is the son of avarice and the father of despair.
More flies are caught with a spoonful of syrup than with a barrel full of vinegar.
You cannot write in the chimney with charcoal.
Like to like, Jack to Gill, a penny a pair.
He hit me, started to cry, and went straight to the judge to sue me.
Kettledrum's sound is nice when heard from afar.
The ass's hide is used to the stick.
The best fodder is the mater's eye.
Too nice can cost a lot of money.
Ask thy purse what thou should'st buy.
He keeps watch over a good castle who has guarded his own constitution.
Approach the perfumer and thou wilt be perfumed.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
Put a begger on horseback, and he will ride fast, or else break his neck.
How easily a hair gets into the butter!
No wind can do him good who steers for no port.
If the palm of the hand itches it signifies the coming of great luck.
He does not show a decent quality even over a good dinner.
Think before speaking.
The furthest way about is the nearest way home.
The alcohol that is insufficient for a whole town ought not to intoxicate one man.
Bypass monks with a big stride; have nothing to do with priests, except at Mass.
Do not always expect good to happen, but do not let evil take you by surprise.
He who shoots often, hits at last.
Health is better than wealth.
It is well to remember that there are five reasons for drinking the arrival of a friend, one's present or future thirst, the excellence of the wine, or any other reason.
Anyone who urinates in a stream should be warned because any of his relatives may drink from the water.
Don't neglect the consequence of your act.
Let no man refuse to endure that which is common to the lot of all.
Through not spending enough we spend too much.
Do not anxiously hope for that which is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is already past.
Great trees give more shade than fruit.
Intelligence is an asset.
Rarely is a fight continued when the chief has fallen.
The devil's meal turns half to bran.
The casket opened simple.
In a long race the good horse prevails.
It is easier to give orders than to work.
It mars to tie the dog to the butter stamp.
Happy is the man who knows he's happy.
Where every man is master the world goes to wreck.
On a rainy day many offer to water the chickens.
Advice should be viewed from behind.
It is easier to transport a termite hill than have authority in a village.
It is better to strive with a stubborn ass than to carry the wood on one's back.
You can't catch trout with dry breeches.
Make peace with man and war with your sins.
Like ants eating a bone.
A girl that blushes too much, knows too much.
If the cap fits, wear it.
One day before you is better than ten years behind you.
It's not worth a cuckoo-spit.
If you see that a town worships a calf, then cut the grass and feed it.
If that man went to a wedding, he'd stay for the christening (To be said of someone who outstays their welcome).
Cream always rises to the top.
Dig a well every day to drink water every day.
A father and mother can raise ten children.
A neck without a head, buttocks without a hole and a girl without shame are not worth admiring or marrying.
A greedy mek fly follow coffin go a hole.
Even monkeys fall from trees.
What won't choke will fatten and clean dirt is no poison.
"And knowledge itself, is power" (Francis Bacon, Meditationes sacrae)
The fish at the top edge of the fire.
Anger dies quickly in a good man.
The castle gates will always open for gold-laden donkeys.
The city, whose physician has the gout, is in a bad state.
Better a poor husband than a lover who's a baron.
Women's jars breed men's wars.
Eggs cannot teach a hen.
What our husband says is what we also say.
He plays with open cards.
If you trust before you try, you will repent before you die.
Walk in the valley of our ancestors, learn of the history, and marvel at the beauty.
We love the treason but hate the traitor.
A bush fowls' playground is never appreciably spacious.
A wife and a nag, choose them from your neighborhood.
If one has to jump a stream and knows how wide it is, he will not jump. If he does not know how wide it is, he will jump, and six times out of ten he will make it.
Better be out of the world than out of the fashion.
Every tree feels the force of the wind.
By day they're ready to divorce, by night they're ready for bed.
If you become a dog, turn into the dog of a wealthy family.
A hungry dog does not fear the stick.
Winter comes on the lazy man.
The injured animal is covered with flies.
Every man know whe' him own house de leak.
Who is smart will learn.
A wise man turns chance into good fortune.
While the wooden idols are tormenting me, the termites are tormenting them.
An answer that does not resolve a quarrel makes a thousand new ones.
In the presence of fate, the physician becomes a fool.
The most praised form of fluency is silence when talk isn't wise.
A goose cannot graze after him.
A mother-in-law who farts during the supper foretells a good harvest.
Some fathers love another man's daughter most.
Once bitten twice shy.
Reasonings banish reason.
Hear the other side, and believe little.
Hurries like having fire under the tail.
Silence means consent.
Danger is next neighbour to security.
Every ditch is full of your after-wits.
The fox never fares better than when he's bann'd.
Kill not the goose that lays the golden eggs.
Anger can be an expensive luxury.
Good words fill not a sack.
Dress makes the man.
As proud as Lucifer. (14th century)
I'll sleep on it.
No one tests the depth of a river with both feet.
When people only talk about things they understand then a great silence will descend upon the world.
Desperate ills require desperate remedies.
It is a great art to laugh at your own misfortune.
When you enjoy loving your neighbor, it ceases to be a virtue.
Jealousy is a pain that seeks what caused it.
He deserves not the sweet that will not taste the sour.
Nature gave us two cheeks instead of one to make it easier to eat hot food.
A thing done has a head.
God gives us milk but no jug.
Butter is crazy three times a year, when it's too hard, too soft and then when there's no butter at all.
A daily guest is a thief in the kitchen.
If you feel sad, laugh.
A good cock is always slim.
One always returns to one's first love.
One road for the fugitive and a hundred for the pursuer.
Shew me the man, and I will shew you the Law.
Give me the ass that carries me in preference to the horse that throws me.
The rain falls on only one roof.
If the sky falls, we shall catch larks.
The palace leads to fame, the market to fortune, and loneliness to wisdom.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh.
The shoemaker's wife and the blacksmith's horse often go unshod.
Sometime, but not this month.
Command your wealth, else that will command you.
The flatterer's throat is an open sepulchre.
Greatness alone in not enough, or the cow would outrun the hare.
It's much easier to fall in love than to stay in love.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
Danger past, God forgotten.
Do not speak badly of a crocodile when your leg is in the river.
Stretch your legs according to the coverlet.
The one who pleased everybody died before they were born.
The child's bottom and April weather arre not to be trusted.
By filling one's head instead of one's pocket, one cannot be robbed.
There's seldom a cake but there's more of the make.
Before you love, learn to run through snow without leaving footprints.
A secretive person is up to some mischief.
It's the eye that eats.
Hew not too high, lest a chip fall in thine eye.
A house filled with guests is eaten up and ill spoken of.
He that has a white horse and a fair wife never wants trouble.
Even a horse, though he has four feet, stumbles.
The gallows will have its own at last.
A country can be judged by the quality of its proverbs.
I'll come again, said the woman who got caught in wing of the windmill.
It's not the towering sail, but the unseen wind that moves the ship.
In thy home be joyous and generous to guests discreet shalt thou be in thy bearing.
Hunger brings the wolf to the fold.
Honesty lasts longest.
We desire to bequest two things to our children–the first one is roots; the other one is wings.
If you run after two hares you will catch neither.
A lie has no legs.
Beauty does not fill your tummy.
Dead dogs don't bite.
The coldness of a friend and the coldness of linen - they never lasted long.
Faces of men we see but not their hearts.
When the cup is full, carry it even.
Don't put the cart before the oxen.
He that has lost his credit is dead to the world.
God has said, "start moving so that I may start blessing.”.
It's better to arrive on time than to be invited.
Envy never has a holiday.
Until you have smoked out the bees, you can't eat the honey.
In childhood you are playful, in youth you are lustful in old age.
The young ones dance as the old ones whistle.
True friendship is like one soul living in two bodies.-.
Even though you tread slowly over your rice field it will become muddy.
The mountains have brought forth a mouse.
Your highness's blow cannot be parried.
God save us from a mistaken summons and poorly informed justice.
You don't have to lie down at the spot where your enemy has thrown you.
The tongue is safe; even among thirty teeth.
Dripping water can eat through a stone.
Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf.
There is no victory without sacrifice.
When the king reigns it is thanks to the people.
It is a bad hen that does not scratch herself.
Politics is a rotten egg if broken, it stinks.
If you have a friend who is a doctor, then send him to your enemy's house.
The washerman never tears his father's clothes.
The chickens have come home to roost.
People sometimes do all the wrong things for all the right reasons.
A sow is always dreaming of bran.
With money you are a dragon; with no money, a worm.
The knee is closer than the calf.
A little axe, when well used, brings lots of food.
If heaven drops you a date, it must be received with an open mouth.
As soon as your cart is turned over, everyone rushes to give you advice.
Who loves ugliness will not encounter beauty.
There are three kinds of people; those that make things happen, those that watch things happen and those who don't know what's happening.
Who is a piece of stick in youth will be a block of wood in old age.
Swing a foot into thorns.
Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others.
If it does not stink, it is not a foot.
Man fears time – time fears the pyramids.
Woman, wind, and luck soon change.
When you in the Midsummer night, drunk, stand up on your boat to pee, you may see your widow-to-be on the shore."
The charitable give out the door and god puts in at the window.
Once a word leaves your mouth, you cannot chase it back even with the swiftest horse.
Haste makes waste.
Big walks, big lies.
Little saints also perform miracles.
The first hen that cackles is the one that laid the egg.
A used plough shines, standing water stinks.
To the mediocre, mediocrity appears great.
You cannot throw a word out of a song.
Never expect your friends to do for you that which you can yourself accomplish.
Happy is the bride the sun shines on.
The always-hurrying person eats goat, but the one who takes his time eats beef.
We will be known forever by the tracks we leave.
He that courts injury will obtain it.
Where water is the boss, there must the land obey.
The best company must part, as king dagobert said to his hounds.
Snivelling folks always want to wipe other folks' noses.
He who has the Pope for a cousin soon becomes a Cardinal.
May no lies be spoken against me in the presence of God.
Long visits bring short compliments.
Who makes baskets, makes some ugly and some beautiful.
If you had an opinion you better be determined.
Virtue becomes a wife; beauty becomes a concubine.
The only friends we have are the mountains.
If you can walk, you can dance; If you can talk, you can sing.
Fortune is like price: if you can wait long enough, the price will fall.
A sheep's bite is never more than skip deep.
No one became poor by giving alms.
Pick up a sesame seed only to lose a watermelon.
A drowning man catches at the water.
A deaf auditor makes a crazy answerer.
Don't just cross a river--cross it bearing fire.
Good eyes don't fear smoke.
Providence is better than a rent.
To give in order to receive is not to give, but to beg.
One seldom meets a lonely lie.
Never let people see the bottom of your purse or of your mind.
No woman marries an old man for God's sake.
Jizo's face when borrowing; emma's face when repaying.
Have not all your eggs in one nest.
Eaten meat is good to pay.
Do not run into debt with a rich man, or promise anything to a poor one.
Put the priest in the middle of the parish.
The hurt man writes with steel on a marble stone.
'But' is a fence over which few leap.
Experience costs blood.
He that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.
If he says yogurt is white, I'll say it's black.
Although the snake does not fly, it has caught the hornbill, whose home is in the sky.
Familiarity brings contempt.
The life of a groundnut lies between two shells.
Only the cure you believe in cures.
He who strikes the first blow admits he's lost the argument.
Wood in wildernesse, & strength in a fool.
Beer before wine, you'll feel fine. Wine before beer, you'll feel queer.
Do good and throw it in the tigris and god will repay you in the desert.
He who builds on another's ground loses his stone and mortar.
Seek advice but use your own common sense.
The wound that bleedeth inwardly is the most dangerous.
'my mother is indeed the best baby carrier,' says the baby.
Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
A lamb takes after its mother.
You are the game while the games lasts.
He is wise who can make a friend of a foe.
Mouth will not be sweet if you say halva.
All is fish that comes to the net.
Beauty, unaccompanied by virtue, is as a flower without perfume.
Grass doesn't grow on a busy street.
What a man thinks up for himself, his worst enemy couldn't wish for him.
Too much honey cloys the stomach.
Ragged colts make the handsomest stallions.
Give lodgement to a Slovak and you will be beaten out of your home.
The right hand does not know what the left is doing.
May you live to be a hundred - and decide then rest for yourself.
When war begins, then hell opens.
Oosta Alam, take this one into account.
The man with a beautiful wife is always singing, the one with little money is always counting.
Don't help a bull out of a ditch, for when he's out he'll butt you.
A dead man feels no cold.
You only know saints by their miracles.
Where there are old people, nothing goes wrong.
Many are called, but few are chosen.
Put a heavy load on an old donkey.
Better to be born a limpet in the sea, than a load bearing donkey.
To be willing is to be able.
Sunshine always follows a dark night.
Here is nothing, hold it tight.
Be aware of a man with a sweet tongue he can lead you to buying bad meat.
A good neighbor increases the value of your property.
Often shooting hits the mark.
A real family eats the same cornmeal.
I see by my mother-in-law's eyes when the devil takes hold of her.
The best-laid schemes of mice and men gang aft agley.
A cat goes to a monastery, but she still remains a cat.
Dance as if no one were watching. Sing as if no one were listening. And live every day as if it were your last.
Love blinds the eyes to faults, and hatred blinds the eyes to virtues.
Confidence of success is almost success.
The wolf changes his coat but not his nature.
Empty barrels rattle the most.
One mother looks after six daughters, but six daughters do not look after one mother.
A small gift is better than a great promise.
We do not care of what we have, but we cry when it is lost.
One person can burn water, while another can't even burn oil.
It does not become the sparrow to mix in the dance of the cranes.
The sleepy fox has seldom feathered breakfasts.
When April is rainy, and May is windy, the year will be fruitful.
Strength is defeated by a strong strategy. Every road leads somewhere.
Out of extreme desire for achieving something, he got in trouble.
Repentance is good, but innocence is better.
Many a fool might pass for a wise man if he would only keep his mouth shut.
You cannot think you could teach a fish to swim.
My ka dwells in my body. Insult it not.
If Vincent begins to flow, then the cellar will be full.
We must live by the quick, not by the dead.
From a pound of talk, an ounce of understanding.
Prudence does no harm.
Justice and fire, keep them at arms length.
The money and fortune will be drunken up soon, but the begging goes on forever.
Bad grass does not make good hay.
Why buy a cow if you can get the milk for free.
When you follow the old man, the dog will not bite.
He released the spirit from the bottle.
Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas.
It is better to run back than run the wrong way.
An American will go to hell for a bag of coffee.
To quarrel with a man of good speech is better than to converse with a man who does not speak well.
The shade of the same tree, the flowing of the same stream.
May you live up to one hundred years and i up to ninety-nine.
The monk responds as the abbot chants.
If ifs and ands were pots and pans there'd be no work for tinkers.
Every year after fifty brings ten ailments.
Whose bread you eat, his songs you'll sing.
To the satiated bird, cherries taste bitter.
Only believe a woman one day later.
An illness comes by the pound and goes away by the ounce.
Blaming your faults on your nature does not change the nature of your faults.
There is no doctor on the day you die.
Undeserved punishment is better than that which is deserved.
Good and evil will never mix.
Salt will never be worm-eaten.
First goblet is still full, but you are sodden (or drunk).
A crooked cornstalk can have a straight ear.
If you sit on a seat, and that seat is a comfortable seat, sit on that seat, and do not leave that seat.
Look to your near neighbour rather than to your distant brother.
All cassavahs have the same skins but not all taste the same.
Joy was born a twin.
The end of wrath is the beginning of repentance.
Where there is equality there never can be perfect love.
He is truly hungry who accepts defeat in a fight over meat.
Close the door from which the wind blows and relax.
The crocodile drinks from the same river as the centipede.
Every beast roars in its own den.
Quhen the good-man is fra hame, the board-cloth is tint.
Few people rise to our esteem upon closer scrutiny.
The intelligence of the average individual reaches its lowest ebb when he enters a railroad station.
The thief thinks everybody steals.
The riverside monkey is apt to be blamed for every twig found in the river.
Let the sword decide after the stratagem has failed.
Many hounds are the death of the hare.
Don't meet troubles half-way.
What a fool can spoil, ten wise men cannot repair.
A rosy face in the morning, white bones in the evening.
A bird in hand is worth ten in a tree.
Water does harm but wine comforts.
The thief who steals another one is forgiven for 100 years.
A donkey which goes to grow horns returns with its ears cut off.
Said in sport, meant in earnest.
Full bottles and glasses make swearers and asses.
It hangs upon a silken thread.
Let every one look to himself, and no one will be lost.
It is better to suffer for truth than to prosper by falsehood.
Better untaught than ill taught.
Like father, like son; like mother like daughter.
When a girl in the teahouse smiles at you, look the other way.
When flatterers meet, the devil goes to dinner.
If you have eaten the morsel on Wednesday, do not look for it on Thursday.
Don't limp before yuh lame.
Really got my mouth taste good when I talked with you.
Better the gurgling of a camel than the prayers of a fish.
If you don't want flour, do not get into the mill.
Persevere like a bird in the wind.
He has lost the nest-egg.
Do not stuff your servant with bread, and he won't ask for cheese.
Hypocrites kick with their hind feet while licking with their tongues.
Better to have something yourself, than to beg of your sister.
Pleasure has a sting in its tail.
The black dog gets the food; the white dog gets the blame.
The best fish hook cannot catch limp cheese.
New laws, new roguery.
Help the needy but not the poor.
The woman of a man without sorrows is almost a widow.
Over no home can the sign be hung: There is no trouble here.
You have nobody to blame but yourself if you stumble more than once over the same stump.
Princes have long arms.
Everyone must pay his debt to nature.
Advice after injury is like medicine after death.
Eggs and vows are easily broken.
Where there are many roosters the dawn comes late.
If Messina had gardens Palermo would be a bunch of poor country houses.
He writes with an iron pen. [That which he writes will not be easily altered.].
In business partnerships and marriage partnerships, oh, the cheating that goes on.
Beware of the goat from its front side, of the horse - from its back side, and the evil man - from any side.
Eating is sweet, digging is weariness.
You can always buy her back later.
A lobster loves water, but not when he's being cooked in it.
Pity the man who does wrong and is poor as well.
He rides sicker that fell never.
Don't trust the horses if they run away, or the whores if they repent.
Salt preserves meat, but what can be done with salt if it is bad.
One's own hearth is worth gold.
You need to break the shell in order to have the almond.
Even the hills grimace in anger.
The opinion of the intelligent is better than the certainty of the ignorant.
Keep your house and your house will keep you.
Truth and folly dwell in the wine-cask.
Strength is not enduring.
It is the master-wheel that makes the mill go round.
Too much discussion means a quarrel.
Annoy your doctor and sickness comes in laughing.
Each monkey on its own branch.
A north wind has no corn, and a poor man no friend.
There is no law but has a hole in it, for those who can find it out.
A bachelor should always spend minimum time with a friend's wife.
Counted sheep are eaten by the wolf.
Lip courtesy avails much and costs little.
He that has the devil on his neck must find him work.
He who would be rich in a year gets hanged in six months.
To every saint his candle.
To forget a wrong is the best revenge.
Better the second husband of a widow than the first.
Anger excites.
Friendship is not born of words alone.
He who slaps himself on the face should not cry ouch.
A burnt child fears [or: dreads] the fire.
He who lies for you will lie about you.
If you follow the lead of the cockerel, you'll be led to the poulterer.
Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without one.
He that does not fear a bull must be a bull himself.
In the darkness all people are equally pretty.
Don't hang all your clothes on one hook.
If you close one eye, you will not hear everything.
In the darkness all cows are black.
He lived a colonel but died a corpse.
Still waters run deep.
Quarrels do not last long if the wrong is only on one side.
Judge not your beauty by the number of people who look at you, but rather by the number of people who smile at you.
God sent him meat, but the devil cooked it.
He would fall on his back and break his nose.
Better die standing than live kneeling.
Not all shiny things are golden.
He that cannot obey cannot command.
Staying near the anthill turned the antelope brown.
When you have left a country, you have left everyone.
The wolf is not afraid of the dog, but he doesn't like the sound of his barking.
Loving someone who does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest.
Neither women nor linen by candlelight.
Raise what you've given birth to.
A married man is a caged bird.
The sore is cured but the scar remains.
New day - new destiny.
The ass of many owners is food for wolves.
Better make profit out of manure than losses with musk.
Hair by hair and the head gets bald.
The Old man is not asked where he aches, but why he does not ache there.
We only call our friends if we need help, and we don't help our friends in need.
A long tongue is a sign of a short hand.
A woman like a goose, a sharp pecking woman.
Happy is the bride that the sun shines on.
Its better to stumble with your feet than to stumble with your mouth.
An invasion of an army can be resisted but an invasion of ideas can't be resisted.
If you don't take it, you don't have it.
May your every wish be granted.
Cow's diets have never been sustained on grass grown in may.
Garden flowers larger, field flowers stronger.
Young suga-cane gives no beer.
Fry the chapati when the pan is hot.
Learning has sour roots, but pleasant fruits.
Chickens are to be counted in the autumn.
He who is far from home, is near to harm.
One should be born either a king or a fool.
Little and pretty like the heaven's navel.
Let's sing a song from the book with glass cover.
Diligence is the vehicle on the paths of mountains of books.
Better an intelligent enemy than a stupid friend.
Courtesy on one side can never last long.
As you shout (in the forest) you will be answered.
You always fall down in the direction of where you bend over.
Events follow one another like the days of the week.
It is easy to work with a good comb, said the devil, when he combed his mother's hair with a pitchfork.
Through others I am somebody.
Water and milk do not mix.
The crow went traveling abroad and came back just as black.
A man's youth will never die, unless he kills himself.
Fools refuse favors.
Riches too increase, and the maddening craving for gold, So that men ever seek for more, that they may have the most.
When a king makes a mistake, all the people suffer.
Meowing cats catch fewer mice.
A soldier's no boor though no gentleman either.
Of your wife and your tried friend believe nothing but what you know for certain.
Without sowing a single wheat you would not harvest thousand ones.
A sip at a time empties the cask.
The same heat that melts wax, bakes clay.
When in someone else's home leave your defects at the door.
Listen to your conviction, even if they seem absurd to your reason.
Ill news comes apace.
Hold fast when you have it.
The thief proceeds from a needle to gold, and from gold to the gallows.
Love is far better than the poi dish or the fish bowl.
Satan finds some mischief still for idle hands to do.
Don't clean your fish before you catch it.
If you want to catch a black goat you make haste before it's dark.
In every beginning think of the end.
Where there's no love, there's no honour.
An elephant fears attack from several sides.
Do not wrong or hate your neighbor for it is not he that you wrong but yourself.
Every woman has something of a witch about her.
Showy clothes attract most.
There is no medicine to cure hatred.
The beginning of health is sleep.
Self exaltation is the fool's paradise.
Many kiss the hand they wish cut off.
No one will say, "My father is incontinent." Everyone will say, "He is a man of advice and wisdom."
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.
Never praise your son-in-law until the year is out.
He does not sing his father's songs.
Even as a solid rock is unshaken by the wind, so are the wise unshaken by praise or blame.
Lawyer for the rich, scourge of the poor.
He who has had enough to eat thinks of serving God; the hungry think of stealing.
April weather, woman's love, rose-leaves, dice, and card-luck, change every moment.
Close to a blacksmith, learn to hammer out nails; close to a carpenter, learn how to use a saw.
God did not create woman from man's head, that he should command her, nor from his feet, that she should be his slave, but rather from his side, that she should be near his heart.
There is no substitute for success.
The crab has stuck fast between the stones at the entrance of its hole.
An argument derived from the abuse of a thing does not hold good against its use.
Don't be too bold, or you will burn your eyes; but don't be too slow.
The tailor ill-dressed, the shoemaker ill-shod.
No man is so young he cannot teach, or so old he cannot learn.
Sow good and you'll reap good; sow bad and you'll reap bad.
If begging should unfortunately be thy lot, knock at the large gates only.
Avoid the pleasure which will bite tomorrow.
A big tree attracts the woodsman's ax.
Who built the drum knows best what is inside.
We must eat and drink though every tree were a gallows.
It dawns none the sooner for all one's early rising.
Nobody calls another's father ‘dad'.
He who does not know one thing knows another.
Silence answers much.
Death always comes too early or too late.
Ken when to spend and when to spare, and ye needna be busy, and ye'll ne'er be bare.
Oh, misfortune, I forgive you when you come alone.
Poverty is no disgrace, but it's a great inconvenience.
One cannot be cautious enough.
The gardener who loves roses is slave to a thousand thorns.
Stone to stone – palace, grain to grain – loaf of bread.
Beautiful woman, beautiful trouble.
The black ox never stamps on his own foot.
He that can reply to an angry man is too hard for him.
There never was a five-pound note but there was a ten-pound road for it.
Honesty is like an icicle; if once it melts that is the end of it.
What is good for the buffalo is good for the cow.
To hit the nail on the head.
Respect for the rights of others is peace.
It is always good when a man has two irons in the fire. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Howdy an ‘tenk yu, noh brok noh square.
The world is for him who has patience.
The early wanderer found a turtle.
The most dangerous food is wedding cake.
Of doctor and crazy, we all have a little.
It will not out of the flesh that is bred in the bone.
A heart in love with beauty never grows old.
When the angels arrive, the devils leave.
Hearsay is half lies.
If the time has passed, there is no point in preparing.
The blow is taken on the nose but it's the eyes that cry.
There are too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
No man can perfectly empty a pot with a ladle.
The Hungarian is far too lazy to be bored.
There is never enough where nought is left.
The old pipe gives the sweetest smoke.
You are still a slave if only your limbs are free.
Money is the best servant.
Beware of the cat that licks from the front but claws from behind.
Where the girls are there are no spider's webs.
A fool in a hurry drinks tea with a fork.
The good seaman is known in bad weather.
Rockstone a riva battam noh know' sun hot.
Life is half spent before one knows what life is.
He can sell ice on rura penthe.
Many will show the way after the carriage has overturned.
To promise much means giving little.
There is only eight years between success and failure in politics.
You take a bull by the horns and a man by his words.
He that makes himself dirt is trod on by the swine.
One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
One rotten apple can spoil a lot of good ones.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. (1639)
No one knows what the dawn will bring.
Take it like the bard's point.
Advice when most needed is least heeded.
He who eats a partridge in his youth will only be left with feathers in his old age.
The young rooster crows as he hears the old one.
When the helm is gone the ship will soon be wrecked.
Having grey hair because of old age is not a shame.
If it comes, it is golden; if it doesn't, it was made of grass.
Do not pretend to be a white fowl.
If you wanted obedience command with what is possible.
A bird in the hand is worth twa in the bush.
A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground.
Puss an' dog noh have di same luck.
A wise man learns by the experiences of others; an ordinary man learns by his own experience; a fool learns by nobody's experiences.
Never begin a negotiation on an empty stomach.
If you say that he is guilty of ingratitude, you need say no more.
He that handles thorns unawares may smart for it.
All knowledge is not taught in one school.
One must howl with the wolves.
The world is like that: one gives a melon, the other gets the stomach cramps.
Physicians' faults are covered with earth, and rich men's with money.
He that lives on hope will die fasting.
He is a fool who makes a mallet of his fist.
Wait for the night before saying that the day has been beautiful.
One year's seeding makes seven years weeding.
You can wait as much as you want, but it's useless.
More cost, more worship.
He wouldn't sleep where there is running water.
It is better to hear the nightingale sing than the mouse gnaw.
If all seeds that fall were to grow, then no one could follow the path under the trees.
A bird does not sing because he has the answer to something, he sings because he has a song.
The gourd's neck cannot be straightened in it's old age, it can only be broken.
Ask about last year's snow!
Better is the evil known than the good which is yet to know.
People with money and friends don't esteem justice.
Sitting quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself.
As the wind so the sail.
There are other fish in the sea.
The key to a healthy body is a good head.
Words are like bees, they have honey and a sting.
It's said straight and not talked sweet.
He suffers from the same disease. [He is in the same difficulty.].
Honor buys no meat in the market.
He who feeds the hen ought to have the egg.
One rind is enough to tie a thousand pieces of wood.
The enemy's cold heart summons the arrow to it.
Don't take the straight path or the winding path. Take the path your ancestors have taken.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Mirth must be indulged in to prepare the mind for more serious matters.
September blow soft till the fruit's in the loft.
He will never worship well the image on the altar who knew it when it was a trunk of wood in the garden.
Fortunate is he whom the dangers of others have rendered cautious.
Who takes care of a widow's ‘hole' will inherit the heavenly kingdom.
Experience is the mother of knowledge.
Diligence are the base for intelligence.
A stern look is not a slap in the face.
He who has diarrhea knows the direction of the door without being told.
A gilt-edged visiting card often hides an ugly face.
Every flail on the oats.
A strong tree shall always grow from the roots and not the seeds.
Scots-men reckon ay fra an ill hour.
Who can say for sure that one will live to see tomorrow.
A bad beginning, a bad ending.
He that speaks ill of the mare would buy her.
If you hear a person talking good about things that aren't in you, don't be sure that he wouldn't also say bad things about things that aren't in you.
Thou shalt never sleep in the arms of a sorceress, lest she should lock thy limbs.
He who destined for power does not have to fight for it.
Wait until it is night before saying that it has been a fine day.
The first thing one should own is a home; and it is the last thing one should sell; for a home is ones tomb this side of heaven.
You may speak with your gold and make other tongues silent.
If you sit at a crossroads, you will get sick.
Wise is who admits he is still ignorant.
One who runs alone cannot be outrun.
One good argument is worth more than ten better ones.
To deceive a diplomat speak the truth, he has no experience with it.
No man is so tall that he need never stretch and none so small that he need never stoop.
Truth is bitter food.
A man dies when he stops working.
Many men know how to flatter, few men know how to praise.
If women were really good, God would be married.
A wild goose never laid a tame egg.
Boil the water and the scum will rise to the top.
Never put off tomorrow what you can do today.
After every darkness is light.
He is hunting for water in the sea.
A word from the mouth, a stone from a sling.
sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears.
Laziness likes to justify itself for not doing anything.
Him with is own knowledge know how to eat from it.
Every sickness begins in the stomach.
It is difficult to repay the gifts you get at a wedding or a funeral.
It is not a feast till the roast, and there are no galling trials till marriage.
The secret of life is not to do what you like, but to like what you do.
Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?
All is in vain unless Providence is with us.
Dung is no saint, but where it falls it works miracles.
Treat your friends as if hereafter they will become your enemies, and your enemies as if they will become your friends.
Death's ladder is there for everyone to climb.
To love a king is not bad, but a king who loves you is better.
Under my cloak I command the king.
The song that has no leader, goes wrong.
Time is like a river - it flows by and doesn't return.
Winter either bites with its teeth or lashes with its tail.
Frog never gargle him troat till him tas'e fresh water.
Take down a thief from the gallows and he will hang you up.
Listen to valuable statements even if they come from your enemy's mouth.
He who goes to bed with dogs, will wake up with fleas.
Long foretold, long last; short notice, soon past.
Might and courage require wit in their suite.
Ill weed grows fast.
Not to advance is to recede.
Those who have friends in the kitchen don't starve.
The worst ache is the present ache.
A snake which escapes fills a basket.
Feeding willow rope. - (Is lying)
There is nothing so evil as the mind of a virtuous woman.
The impotent man does not eat spicy foods.
A great position entails great responsibility.
Cherries are bitter to the glutted blackbird.
Fire purges everything.
A lamp in the street, obscurity at home.
Happy is she who is in love with an old dotard.
He that digs up a grave for his enemy, may be digging it for himself.
All are not free who mock their chains.
When your enemies attack, bathe in their blood.
Talking of an old debt always starts another quarrel.
While wrangling over a quarter of pig, you can lose a flock of sheep.
Youth has a small head.
March sun ages women.
A boy may cry; but a man as to conceal his pain.
Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse.
He is an old saint, any may leave it in the hands of God.
Either do as your neighbors do, or move away.
They are good willy of their Horse that hes none.
When you're speaking about the trolls, they're standing in the entrance hall listening.
Not for village, not for town.
Youths are like waves of the sea, the elderly have strength instead of tide.
A man that will fight will find a cudgel in every hedge.
Best to bend while it is a twig.
Charity bread has hard crusts.
Mere words do not feed the friars.
A handful of might is better than a sack full of right.
Yesterday, today and tomorrow -- these are the three days of man.
He who has no future loses his grip on the present.
Where there is doubt, there is freedom.
The art is not in making money, but in keeping it.
Old age and poverty are wounds that can't be healed.
Hit him again, he has no friends. Ударь его еще раз, у него нет друзей.
It is not work that kills, but worry.
As busy as a bee.
Give some people everything you have and they still want the moon.
Kill two vultures with one arrow.
One may make up a soft bed for somebody, but still it will be hard to sleep in.
A fair exchange is no robbery.
Music is made of sorrows.
In less than a thousand years we shall all be bald.
If unreason comes, reason goes.
It is better to wear out than to rust out.
Where two fall out, the third wins.
Conscience betrays guilt.
Compulsory prayers never reach heaven.
Wounds heal, but not ill words.
A crowd is not company.
If you want the truth, ask a child.
The sharper soon cheats the covetous man.
You fail if you're afraid. Or brave, you may become a king.
One who eats the remains of a meal without first obtaining permission.
That which should feed our children ought not to be given to dogs.
Whatever is in the heart will come up to the tongue.
The last to breathe is the first to drown.
When the big tree falls, the goat eats its leaves.
He who pulls out a knife, by knife shall die.
Because of their figure, vain women stay cold.
A proof of faith is obedience.
The stew of cheap meat will be tasteless.
An elephant never gets tired of supporting its tusks.
Misfortunes never come single.
Time gives good advice.
Lead by Example.
The more you eat, the more you gain.
Great chiefs prove their worthiness.
The best memory is not so firm as faded ink.
Idleness has poverty for wages.
Whomever looks for easy work goes to bed very tired.
A man is not honest simply because he never had a chance to steal.
The strength of a man can't be determined by is size.
It is always the impossible that happens.
Love knows hidden paths.
Even a clock that is not going is right twice a day.
It bakes, said Ville Rasi in the sauna.
It's hard to kill a bad thing.
A hyena intrudes through a gap a dog opened.
The space under the bed is like a mat.
A smile makes you ten years younger.
If you live in a glasshouse you should not throw stones.
Live in measure, and laugh at the mediciners.
Every flood will have an ebb.
Better to bend than break.
Marrying in the blood is never good.
A penny in time is as good as a dollar.
An ill-tempered dog has a scarred nose.
The gardener's feet do no harm to the garden.
Our wishes are like little children - the more you indulge the more they want from you.
What you learn to your cost you remember long.
Don't buy a cow to get a glass of milk.
He is as sharp as a leaden dagger.
They match as a stick in a quiver.
Failures are but mileposts on the road to success.
Where devil cannot go, he will send a woman.
The back dies for the shoulder and the shoulder knows nothing about it.
A workman is known by his chips.
By teaching, we learn. (Seneca)
Having need of makes the ugly beautiful.
Curses are like young chickens,
One must talk little, and listen much.
Equality begins in the grave.
The buffalo does not wander from the marsh where it was born.
Godamighty mek man straight, a rum mek him can't ‘tan' up.
If you wish to know what a man is, make him king.
Seek wisdom like a begger.
Man is harder than iron, stronger than stone and more fragile than a rose.
Without work there won't be any bread in your mouth.
Fight poison with poison.
The master is the one who turns the servant into a thief.
A secret between two is God's secret, a secret between three is everybody's.
If you want to know the value of money, go and borrow some.
It takes a thief to catch a thief.
He gathers up ashes and scatters flour.
All the treasures of earth cannot bring back one lost moment.
Hold a true friend with both hands.
One does not live on joy or die of sorrow.
A Word makes no hole, a pinch tears no underskirt.
A dragon will be teased by a shrimp in a shoal water; a tiger will be bullied by a dog on a treeless plain.
To spend much and gain little is the sure road to ruin.
A sheik's miracles are of his own telling.
When all the water has gone, only the largest stones will remain on the riverbed.
Do not whirl a snake in the air when you have killed it; the ones which remain in their holes see you.
Even the sea. great as it is, grows calm.
The wolf can always be hired very cheap as a shepherd.
Blind zeal only does harm.
For a flying enemy make a silver bridge.
Quhom God will help, no man can hinder.
The strong don't need clubs.
We live by hope, but a reed never becomes an Iroko tree by dreaming.
Truth is lost with too much debating.
Small winning makes a heavy purse.
Laugh and grow fat.
There is nothing without a cause.
Oregano and wild mint, if one does poorly, the other is worse.
In judging others, the point of departure is always himself.
It is not the lamb that should go and ask the lion if it has had dinner.
When you go, the road is rough; when you return, smooth.
Gratitude is the least of virtues, but ingratitude the worst of vices.
Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight.
The world lives on hope.
The church is an anvil which has worn out many hammers.
Don't reckon your eggs before they are laid.
To swim and swim more, and be drowned on shore.
Every door may be shut but death's door.
It takes four living men to carry one dead man out of a house.
The daughter of a spry old woman makes a poor housekeeper.
To have eye one on the cat and another on the frying-pan.
If Nakedness promises you a piece of cloth, ask him his name.
The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them.
Old fish and young flesh do feed men best.
He who takes pains will get things done.
A lazy man plants on a mad bark as an excuse for not planting.
A year's care, a minute's ruin.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll find a use for it.
All poor people ain't black/ and all black people ain't poor.
The vulture embraced the chicken until its last breath.
The man who has mounted an elephant will not fear the bark of a dog.
Who fears laughing will die of fart.
A horse may stumble, though he has four feet.
Love is better than a whip.
Where you lose nothing, you always win something.
Your looks betray your thoughts.
One day of rain far surpasses a whole year of drought.
Better be a bird of the wood than a bird in the cage.
A gem is not polished without rubbing, nor is a man perfect without trials.
Beat your wife on the wedding day, and your married life will be happy.
Take a young woman for the pleasure of possessing her until she is old.
The genuine friend, who is affected with the joys and sorrows of another, is a medicinal cordial, the sanctuary of the heart, the delight of the eyes, and worthy of confidence.
An argument is fine only when there is to be a fight.
When they offer you a ring, hold out your finger.
Fashion: a despot whom the wise ridicule and obey. (Ambrose Bierce)
The real scholar is not afraid to ask questions of his pupil.
One day of hunger is not starvation.
The belly gives no credit.
He who has drunk will drink.
Better to have a diamond with a few small flaws than a rock that is perfect.
Не that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
The deep sea can be fathomed, but who knows the hearts of men?
It's a very proud horse that will not carry his oats.
If you want to clean the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away.
If you cannot fail, you cannot succeed.
If you can't lick 'em, join 'em.
Early to bed and early to rise makes people healthy, wealthy and wise.
Slowness comes from God and haste from the Devil.
Don't put stones on a burden.
Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return.
There are seven different kind of weather in one autumn night.
All mortal creatures exist depending upon one another.
Either a ship or a tuft of feathers.
When a man hurries, the devil smiles.
Dancing depends on the parents.
It is better to say "here he ran" than "here he died".
A rash man, a skin of good wine, and a glass vessel, do not last long.
A true wife is her husband's flower of beauty.
Disgraces are like cherries, one draws another.
Drums sound loud because they are hollow.
When we have nothing to worry about we are not doing much, and not doing much may supply us with plenty of future worries.
Listen to the old and you won't be mistaken.
Quarrelling is peculiar to the woman who has got male children.
Different culture means different custom.
Your feet will take you away from home, but your stomach will always bring you back.
Go as far as you can see, and when you get there you'll see further.
A friend by thee is better than a brother far off.
The unfortunate would be bitten by toothless dogs.
The saint has no believers unless he works miracles.
Aged ginger is more pungent.
Better be friends at a distance than enemies at home.
When you run alone, you run fast. When you run together, you run far.
A little pot is soon hot.
Sorrow is always dry.
The one who loves does not hate.
If you are planning for a year, sow rice; if you are planning for a decade, plant trees; if you are planning for a lifetime, educate people.
One cannot make a fur coat from a "Thank you.”.
Deceive the rich and powerful if you will, but don't insult them.
Every one is a thief in his own craft.
Talking something over is better than leaving it pending.
A good dog does not bite a chicken and a good man does not hit his wife.
What keeps its leaves, to the waning moon. What loses its leaves, to the new moon.
I will feed you even though you are an outcast. I will give you drink even though you are an outcast. You are still my son, even if your god has turned against you.
So many countries, so many customs.
He flies by his own wings. Alis volat propriis.
Hard is the path from poverty to renown.
A burden which one chooses is not felt.
Virtue would not go far, if a little vanity walked not with it.
If you lie upon roses when you're young, you'll lie upon thorns when you're old.
The tongue ties knots that the teeth cannot loosen.
He who has been bitten by a snake is scared of a rope on the ground.
The wise man looks ahead. The fool attempts to fool himself and won't face facts.
Dog does not eat dog.
The rippling water where birds gather.
When you buy beef, you buy bones; when you buy land, you buy rocks.
A mouse will put the finishing stroke to a castle wall.
He who is drowned is not troubled by the rain.
The rich man spends his money, the poor man his strength.
You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus.
Necessity is a great teacher.
Shame is worse than death.
The sun will shine into our yard too.
Useless wisdom is double foolishness.
Yielding stays war.
From twenty to thirty, neither pulling nor pushing, from thirty on up a woman is of no further use.
True love burns within the heart, better than flax and straw.
Don't just cross a river -- cross it bearing fire!
Love and a cough cannot be hidden.
He who lives in a glass house should not throw stones.
All is not gold that glistereth.
It is often better to go by a circuitous than by a direct path.
We hate whom we have injured.
A hairy man's a geary man, but a hairy wife's a witch.
A beggar's hand is a bottomless basket.
For the upright there are no laws.
One who runs alone cannot be outrun by another.
Oor ain reek's better than ither fowk's fire.
One flea does not hinder sleep.
Avoid anger and you will not sin.
Let's face the facts and get at the root of trouble.
Possessions are flying birds -- they never find a place to settle.
Troy is a thing of the past.
A person who talks about his inferiors hasn't any.
The hungry dream of bread, the thirsty of water.
Christmas comes but once a year.
Lay your hand on your bosom and you will not speak ill of another.
A stich in time saves nine.
Let me drink beer shandy and sit in the seat of honour!
The three most beautiful sights: a potato garden in bloom, a ship under sail, and a woman after the birth of a child.
Big flies break the spider's web.
Love is the art of making exceptions.
Even as the archer loves the arrow that flies, so too he loves the bow that remains constant in his hands.
When a centipede dies on the wall it does not fall down.
Another man's horse and your own whip can do a great deal.
Young fools think that the old are dotards, but the old have forgotten more than the young fools know.
Let us see then tell; hearing is not seeing.
The money you refuse will never do you good.
A closed mouth–a wise head.
Was bald grünt, verdirbt bald.
One who does what he says is not a coward.
Every impediment is a benefit.
Adam must have an Eve, to blame for his own faults.
Slow speech and stiff tongue like Moses had.
Forwards said the granny in the snow.
I´ve got nothing but money and ragged clothes.
Sick people are like kings.
Everybody has a name, but not always the same luck with it.
A mad man drops a rock into water well, so that thousand wise men can not take it out.
The evil weed produces the largest number of weeds.
Great smoke, little roast.
At home saints never perform miracles.
Love is blind.
When all men say you are an ass it is time to bray.
Over hot, over cold.
If you hunt with cats you'll catch mice.
Have a bill to pay at Easter, and your Lent will be short.
Two Sir Positives can scarce meet without a skirmish.
The monkey never complains that he has no comb.
Happiness is as good as food.
Others have only one anxiety, but I have eight anxieties.
After the evil cross the crown has come.
The brains don't lie in the beard.
Unless a serpent devour a serpent it will not become a dragon. Unless one power absorb another, it will not become great.
Mother carry me, and I tomorrow will carry you.
How much is prestige worth, not as much as Palermo, if you take away the saints.
Everything may be repaired except the neckbone.
He is wise to no purpose, who is not wise for himself.
Much pressed is he who fain on the hearth would seek for warmth and weal.
There's no worse deaf man than the man who doesn't want to listen.
You can never sow rice and expect to harvest maize.
People count the refusals, do not count the gifts.
Train up a child in the way he should go.
Overwhelming courtesy raises concern that you may be being deceitful.
The thief becomes the gallows well.
Love and prudence are absolutely incompatible.
A brother is like one's shoulder.
Much ado and little help.
The best horse can't wear two saddles.
A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly.
Small undertakings give great comfort.
Having finished the meal, the company leaves.
What lowers itself is ready to fall.
Many become brave when brought to bay.
They don't count the teeth of a gift horse.
Great anger is more destructive than the sword.
If you are doing wrong, make sure you don't get fat from it.
Studyation beat education.
Dreams are what you hope for; reality is what you plan for.
He who plants fruit-trees, must not count upon the fruit.
Of evil grain no good seed can come.
The fox did not reach the grape, said it's unripe.
When the fox preaches, look to the geese.
Often one finds destiny just where one hides to avoid it.
The die is cast.
Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.
The new moon cannot come until the other has gone.
Hell has no fury like a woman scorned.
He who has a dog need not bark himself.
Anger is as a stone cast into a wasp's nest.
An honest man's word is his bond.
The mouse fell from the ceiling, and the cat cried "Allah!".
It is only a stupid cow that rejoices at the prospect of being taken to a beautiful abattoir.
Seven nannies make a one-eyed kid.
Luck taps at the door and inquires whether prudence is within.
Love your neighbour, yet don't pull down your hedge.
A warm fire is better than any delicious food.
Nobility follows the man's line at a wedding.
Fancy kills and cures.
Perhaps no one has a finer command of a language than he who keeps his mouth shut.
If you borrow from an eagle you will always be looking up in the sky.
Don't extinguish something that does not burn you.
[One's] own burden doesn't encumber.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
You cannot take a shirt from a naked man.
The hungry belly and the full belly do not walk the same road.
When a cat wants to eat its own kitten it accuses them of smelling like rats.
What a fool does in the end, the wise do in the beginning.
Repentance washes away sin.
Someone who wish something impossible.
Is like having changed three times into an ape and lost every time.
Praise a fair day at night.
A good name reaches far but a bad one reaches farther.
Who celebrates all holidays will face all hungers.
A handsome finger gets the ring.
If I had two loaves of bread, I would sell one and buy hyacinths, for they would feed my soul.
A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.
Don't ask a man for a favour before he has had his lunch.
He's weel worthy o' sorrow that buys it wi' his ain siller.
The harp dispels care.
The downward road is easy.
The fear of death takes away the joy of living.
A man who does no hard work will never know the value of rest.
By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.
To start a fight, one does not bring a knife that cuts but a needle that sews.
A canoe does not know who is king. When it turns over, everyone gets wet.
Be not a baker if your head is butter.
The matchmaker gets three cups of wine when he succeeds and three slaps on the cheek when he fails.
Fire does not make fire, only ashes.
A tiger does not have to proclaim its tigri-tude.
By perseverance the Greeks reached Troy.
Girne when you knit, and laugh when ye loose.
Drop by drop would make a lake.
Softly, softly, catchee monkey.
He who would gather roses, must not fear thorns.
The best shortage is a shortage of words.
Don't expect. Inspect.
Buy on the rumor; sell on the news.
Many an honest heart beats under a ragged coat.
Beauty doesn't exist, men only dream it.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
Even you are not better than the linen of Deak's wife.
There is little use in watching a bad woman.
The tears of a man flow into the stomach.
"but” is a fence over which few leap.
Not Every nun becomes Mother Superior.
Gold, when beaten, shines.
Curses are like young chickens, And still come home to roost.
To cut off the head is no remedy for the headache.
The wind changes every day; a woman changes every second.
Treat everything of this world as mere vanity.
A foolish judge passes brief sentence.
The doctor comes to the house where the sun can't reach.
Experience is the father of wisdom.
Patching makes a garment last long..
The elephant does not feel a flea-bite.
Tumbleweed entered the mouth of the lying camel.
If you will stir up the mire, you must bear the smell.
It is easier to beat two devils into a child, than one devil out.
Thirteen nuns, fourteen children!
To conceal disease is fatal.
He may lie boldly who comes from afar.
Seamen learn to get to know each other during a storm.
A wedding is like a funeral, but with musicians.
He is not a wise man who cannot play the fool on occasion.
In a noble man, anger lasts for a moment in a worldly man for two hours in a base man for a day and in an evil man until death.
When God wants to please a poor man, He lets him lose his donkey and then helps him find it again.
You cannot clear fog with a fan.
A liar ought to have a good memory.
Trade knows neither friends or kindred.
Live near a lame man, and you will soon learn to limp.
The hunter who always comes home with meat is a thief.
Men are blind in their own cause.
An hour of play discovers more than a year of conversation (does).
Fortune can take away riches but not courage.
If love is a sickness, patience is the remedy.
Know you not that kings have long arms?
An open box tempts an honest man.
The real capital of a man is a mirror worth two cents.
At pentecost, he who does not celebrate lives to regret it.
Borrowing brings care.
If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars? If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
Though a lie be well dressed, it is ever overcome.
It is a bad workman that has a bad saw.
Drums are never beat without reason.
One who enters a hut does not smell the termites roasting in the boiler.
It will be an ill web to bleitch.
Durability is better than show.
Nobody grumbles while carrying a load, but when he has laid it down.
Ill-gotten goods seldom prosper.
In the presence of princes the cleverest jester is mute.
Move your neck according to the music.
A known mistake is better than an unknown truth.
You cannot catch a fox with a bait.
Better die with honor than live with shame.
A man of gladness seldom falls into madness.
Unless what we do is useful, glory is vain.
Bury can't and you'll find will.
A rainy day is not a day for children.
Who won't be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock.
Crabs dig holes according to the size of their shells.
Marriage is not just a porridge that you spit out if it's too hot.
Ask no favors and people everywhere are affable; if you don't drink, it doesn't matter what price wine is.
A letter once written cannot be recalled.
Two bears in one cave will not end up well.
He who prates much lies much.
It is not easy to meet Good, but it is easy to recognize it.
Burn not your house to rid it of the mouse. (Strauss, 1994 p. 568)
The way of a slothful man is as a hedge of thorns.
Riches and poverty do not leave each other.
The best dancer comes from the sitting lounge.
Cleanse thy heart from greed, and thy foot shall remain free from fetters.
New comers are always welcome.
A people's legends reveal its character more clearly than its acts and events.
A man is always on the move.
The horse with the most scars is the one that highest kicks his rear.
Indulge not in boisterous mirth.
Ye never saw green cheese but your e'en reei'd.
The mouth that eats should not talk, for it risks swallowing a fly.
He who loves the vase loves also what is inside.
No medicines can cure the vulgar man.
A good word is worth much and costs little.
Who laughs at beggar's staff and roundhouse will be put to prison himself.
You come with a cat and call it a rabbit.
"Hawaiʻi Ponoʻī” is the current state song of the State of Hawaii.
Business first, pleasure after.
The dead do not know the value of white sheets.
What the eyes don't see the heart doesn't feel.
The only thing left in the wadi are its stones.
Bare gentry are braging and beggars.
Precious things are mostly in small compass.
Friendship is a furrow in the sand.
A close friend can become a close enemy.
Any weapon is dangerous even to a person handling it.
Where one is wise two are happy.
Having two left hands.
We have not inherited the earth from our ancestors, we have only borrowed it from our children.
No injury can be complained of by a consenting party.
It is not for the good of the cow when she is driven in a carriage.
Laugh at leisure ye may greet ere night.
One kindness is the price of another.
A dog may die from too much walking, but a fool dies from worrying about someone else's business.
The wolf knows what the ill beats thinks.
He disappeared like a grey donkey in the fog.
The devil lives beneath a slattern woman's skirts.
Mountain won't meet mountain, but man will meet man.
If you ask questions, you cannot avoid answers.
Everyone stones the tree that bears fruit.
People fool themselves. They pray for a long life but fear old age.
There's no use to pray after the devil has you.
Pass the bridge that your kinsmen have passed.
Nobody sows a thing that will not sell.
A home without guests, a village without shepherds, both are hopeless indeed.
The barber learns to shave on the orphan's face.
There are tricks in every trade.
A mother is always a mother.
Meat makes, and clothes shapes, but manners makes a man.
The darkest hour is just before dawn.
Children's love is like water in a basket.
Don't be friends with the dog, for the tail will show it.
He who lives more lives than one, more deaths than one must die.
The sun will set without thy assistance.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand itself alone.
It is a good answer which knows when to stop.
Never love with all your heart, it only ends in breaking.
The members of the family are in distress, but the idols are worshipped.
If you are astonished at Moses' deeds, you will be more astonished at Pharaoh's. Not-Moses declared himself to he a prophet, but Pharaoh declared himself to be God.
In the valley where there are no tigers the hare is king.
A fool, if he holds his tongue, passes for wise.
Stolen pleasures are sweet.
Good ware was never dear.
Birth is the messenger of death.
Care and diligence bring luck.
Hay smells different to lovers and horses.
Women's quarrels cause the men's wars.
If you are a leader of peace, listen to the discourse of the petitioner. Be not abrupt with him; that would trouble him.
The Bad tax-collector will sell one of your oxen, the good one - both.
All happiness is in the mind.
Lasses and glasses are always in danger.
A beard signifies lice, not brains.
The smallest thing outlives the human being.
Though the heron flied high the falcon kills it.
A swan would die with pride only for its black feet.
Hmmm ... we chop down trees and chop up wood.
Wise men philosophize as the fools live on.
To long for everything: sorrow; to accept everything: joy.
No ape but swears he has the handsomest children.
Better a good conscience without wisdom than wisdom without a good conscience.
Just because a loan is old, that does not make it a gift.
We pay when old for the excesses of youth.
Three or four daily will bring you to the bottom of the sack.
It is good to dance on another man's floor.
No matter how much the world changes, cats will never lay eggs.
It is only when someone kills a madman that people will know he has relatives.
It's ower weel hoardit that canna be fund.
There's neither success nor efficiency without authority and laws.
If you live in my heart, you live rent free.
If a man from humble beginnings gets rich, he will carry his umbrella at midnight.
How great the grandfathers are, but how regretful what they left behind.
Adam was the luckiest of men: he had no mother-in-law.
Man has responsibility, not power.
The water is the same on both sides of the boat.
To the world wisdom is folly; to the wise the world is foolish.
If you are threatened by a man, sleep at night, if it is by a woman then stay awake.
Better are some small fish than an empty dish.
Take hold of a good minute.
Mony words, muckle drouth.
If an ass goes traveling it will not come home a horse.
Where nothing is, the king must lose his right.
I meant to cross myself and put out one of my eyes.
To believe everything is too much, to believe nothing is not enough.
He who pays well is master of another man's purse.
With time and straw medlars ripen.
Every invalid is a doctor.
An old hen makes strong soup.
He who wears too fine clothes, shall go about in rags.
A boy's love is water in a sieve.
There's many a good cock come out of a tattered bag.
The tongue of men is the whip of God.
Your shirt doesn't belong to this laundry.
Promises are like the full moon, if they are not kept at once they diminish day by day.
Sick people have no friends.
One man can summon the future.
Any plan is bad that cannot be changed.
Never lend that thing you most need.
A bad brother is far better than no brother.
If there is beauty in character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
Love and hate always exaggerate.
Fancy requires much, necessity but little.
Hawks will not pick out hawk's eyes.
No pride like that of an enriched beggar.
The classic formula for success is Dress British, Think Yiddish.
More is done with words than with hands.
What ripens fast does not last.
He who perseveres wins at last.
Even a blind hen can find a grain.
After all I have no nationality and am not anxious to claim any.
Nothing grows old sooner than a kindness.
You will catch no birds with a club.
A single advantage is worth a thousand sorceries.
To show one's fist to a blind man is neither a sin nor a virtue.
Appear in your own colours, that folk may know you.
A man need never revenge himself; the body of his enemy will be brought to his own door.
Nobody goes to Tula with one's own samovar.
Better one day a man than ten days a woman.
He is not a bad driver who knows how to turn.
To speak is to sow; to listen is to reap.
Nobody tells all he knows.
A little idleness causes the ruin of the beehive.
Those sitting above can easily spit on those below.
Never in speech with a foolish knave shouldst thou waste a single word.
The later the evening, the fairer the company.
He does na aye ride when he saddles his horse.
Woods have ears, fields have eyes.
One shouldn't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Time flies.
Old wine and friends improve with age.
Claw me and I'll claw thee.
Labour conquers all things.
Lower your head modestly while passing, and you will harvest bananas.
The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free.
Through hardships to the stars.
Life is made of two days. One which is sweet and the other is bitter.
All riches come from the earth.
He is as impertinent as a fly at the market.
Fair words won't fill the sack.
However foul it be, never say, Of this water I will not drink.
In the eyes of its mother every beetle is a gazelle.
When the lion gets old even flies attack him.
Cut your coat to suit your cloth.
Do not rejoice at my grief, for when mine is old yours will be new.
Be content and do not heed the goadings of ambitions.
Although a monkey be dressed in silk, she is still a monkey.
The winter does not leave without a backward glance.
The zebra told the white horse, "I am white," and told the black horse, "I am actually black."
Show me your horse and I will tell you what you are.
A spared body only goes twenty-four hours further that another.
Let him who would reach another a brand, beware that he do not burn his own hand.
You cannot make people honest by an act of parliament.
Don't be a lion in your own house.
The meat from the castrated, from wherever you take it you trick yourself.
Many Eskimos and few seals.
Education is what you know, not what's in the book.
Take care lest your tongue should cut off your head.
One God, one wife, but many friends.
Things go badly when everyone's in charge.
Even a superb hawk will not catch game unless it is loosed.
When you buy friends with anything other than friendship, they do not stay bought long.
Social good is what brings peace to family and society.
A husband should not talk of pretty girls in front of his wife.
If you don't use the painstik, the child will never celebrate his age of ascension.
He who does not praise a thing is he who buys it.
A cat lives on praise, a dog by pats on the head.
I would as soon see your nose be cheese, and the cat get the first bite of it.
Women never praise without gossiping.
Nothing succeeds like success.
A strong attack is half the battle won.
Who has no bread to spare should not keep a dog.
One of the greatest labor-saving inventions of today is tomorrow.
A hypocrite's hatred is hidden behind flattering words.
Even if you rease your clothes in very hot water you still need to dry them.
A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table.
The greatest virtue is like water; good for everything.
Fire is a good slave, but a bad master.
The frog cannot out of her bog.
The worst kind of person is one whose power of speech is greater than his power of thought.
He who puts giants to flight rapidly advances.
People don't thank someone who doesn't thank God.
An empty sack doesn't stand up.
He who has daughters to marry, let him give them silk to spin.
Better one day as a lion than a hundred as a sheep.
Only the hunchback himself knows how he can lie comfortably.
For an ant to have wings would be his undoing.
You may well have two legs but you still can't climb two trees at the same time.
Better do little good than a great deal bad.
Though you live near a forest, do not waste firewood.
An old spinster is not worth more than a un posted letter.
He who does not venture has no luck.
It is not often that a man's reputation outlasts his money.
Own children the good children, grandchildren the golden children.
Talk does not cook rice.
God pardons the ignorant.
Better be the head of a cat than the tail of a lion.
Every head has its own kind of headache.
A woman's hair is long, and her mind short.
He is my friend that helps me, and not he that pities me.
A man's heart is not a sack open to all.
When things are at the worst they begin to mend.
When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you.
He that shows a passion tells his enemy where he may hit him.
A cat in a cage becomes a lion.
When there is real danger, the dogs don't bark.
The snail, to be rid of annoyances, bartered its eyes for horns.
Beauty and money – they will go; learning and good manners – they never decay.
Even a stone turns green if it does not move for a long time.
A thorn defends the rose, harming only those who would steal the blossom.
Ignorance is the mother of superstition.
Buried already is the darkness
Who listens to the voice of the elderly is like a strong tree; who turns a deaf ear is like a twig in the wind.
Those who are at one regarding food are at one in life.
A thief finds another one.
If you have no teeth, do not break the clay cooking pot.
He swallows the bitter pill.
Where right has no power - there power likes to be.
When two dogs fight over a bone, a third one carries it away.
Young people don't know what age is, and old people forget what youth was.
One who walks with no reason is not like one who sits without reason, the one who walks might pick up something.
Repetition is the mother of knowledge.
Even ugly faces are worth looking at -- and that is a great comfort for most people.
A judge knows nothing unless it has been explained to him three times.
Speed and accuracy do not agree.
Give monks a wide berth, and as for priests just attend Mass.
Unlaid eggs are uncertain chickens.
Common proverbs of cooperation are:.
Noble birth is a poor dish at table.
Every one is a king in his own house.
Madreterra (Motherland) is the official anthem of Sicily.
Close your mouth; that way, no mosquitos will fly in.
War makes robbers, and peace hangs them.
If you get a reputation as an early riser, you can sleep till noon.
Fifty steps laugh at a hundred steps.
A new sieve is on a nail, then it gets under the bed.
Travel east or travel west, a man's own house is still the best.
A child's lie is like a dead fish in a pond that in the end, always comes to the surface, explains his mother.
Little chips kindle fire, and big logs sustain it.
The son of an old man is an orphan, and his wife is a widow.
Words and feathers are carried away by the wind.
Calling the devil is not the same as seeing him come.
He who has been at the mill has flour on his hat.
The pot of water falls from your head when you have just reached the door of your homestead.
The first mistake are theirs who commit them, the second are theirs that permit them.
Peace feeds, war wastes; peace breeds, war consumes.
One has always strength enough to bear the misfortunes of one's friends.
A thorn in the flesh.
If you do not strike back at him who hits you, there is no way for him to find out whether you also have hands.
Brackish water is sweet in a drought.
Those who love you will make you weep; those who hate you will make you laugh.
Facts are stubborn things.
Trust makes way for treachery.
A postern door makes a thief.
One should not stand at the foot of a sick person's bed, because that place is reserved for the guardian angel.
Desperation is the mistress of the impossible.
No proverb is untrue.
Do not trust a person who claims to be honest, and never trust exaggerated friendliness.
Who stands up with anger will sit down with loss.
He flies into the flame, the summer insect.
When its time has arrived, the prey becomes the hunter.
Never give up your own old mat for a better prayer mat which you see passing.
He who climbs a ladder, must have his brains in his feet.
A brave man is scared of a lion three times:.
Justice and health, woe to the one who seeks them.
Twa words maun gang to that bargain.
Eternity makes room for a salty cucumber.
If a man lends an ear, it's because he, too, wants to speak.
A fool is someone who trusts another fool.
A smart man doesn't give his wife a lot of freedom.
Who cannot yet walk, cannot climb a ladder.
Faint hearts never win fair ladies.
Turn your tongue seven times before speaking.
Rather a husband with one eye than with one son.
Every frog must know its sole-leather.
Good people have set sail to arrive at such gentleness as cuts like diamonds.
Feed your horse as a friend, mount him as an enemy.
It is not always good to be wise.
Jacob's voice, Esau's hands.
A fox will lose it's hair, but not it's tricks.
Beware of "Had I but known.”.
The cricket cries, the year changes.
Where distrust enters, love is no more than a boy.
A penny is sometimes better spent than spared.
The beggar who asks for crumbs gets more than the one who asks for bread.
Don't be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts.
Follow the wise few rather than the vulgar many.
Honour and profit lie not in one sack.
I prefer death to disgrace.
What Master Jacky does not learn, Mr. John never knows.
If a word be worth one shekel, silence is worth two.
One who would pick the roses must bear with the thorns.
One glass, not the better of it and not the worse of it. Two glasses, the better of it and not the worse of it. Three glasses, the worse of it and not the better of it.
Ane may bind a sack before it be fou'.
Spilt salt is never well collected.
In a group of many words, there is bound to be a mistake somewhere in them.
A nail secures the horse-shoe, the shoe the horse, the horse the man, the man the castle, and the castle the whole land.
It has neither an ear, nor a tail.
You can not know the extent of water in a pond that you have never been to.
He has already one foot in the grave.
Marry for money, my little sonny, a rich man's joke is always funny.
Every one is wise when the mischief is done.
When an elephant is dead, a hare will not smell.
Praise undeserved is satire in disguise.
The crowd is not led by the head but by the heart.
The rich eat. The poor smoke.
Better to own it than asking your brother for it.
Rejoice with those that do rejoice.
The pit allows the grass to fall in.
A guest will not know what fasting means.
The smith's horse and the shoemakers children are worst shod.
Too many doctors caused the boy's death.
Don't cry "Hurra!" till you are over the ditch.
A short temper is a disadvantage.
It is harder work getting to hell than to heaven.
A wheel that turns gathers no rust.
The devil rebukes sin.
A little with quiet is the only diet.
Don't put the fox to guard the henhouse.
As thou valuest yourself, others will esteem thee.
Don't preach, neither at home nor abroad.
A drop I was, / came to the sea, / I want to become a drop again.
A fool's lips bring him strife and invite a beating.
Of evils, choose the least.
A generous man must eat if he wants to continue to be one.
A fool judges people by the presents they give him.
As porridge benefits those who heat and eat it, so does a child benefit those that rear it.
Tell a lazy man to do something. Listen to philosophy!
He who can't bother to get married will have no children.
The love of a soldier doesn't last long; when the drum rolls; Good bye, dear lady.
It's the grinding of his teeth that awakes the blacksmith's dog, not the noise of the hammer.
A man finds what he takes to be small; it will only be big again when he loses it.
No matter how high the squirrel jumps, it will eventually fall onto the ground.
Death does not come free of charge, for it costs us our life.
Where the bee sucks honey the spider sucks poison.
No blessing is bestowed on a secret.
That which eats you up is in your clothing.
Marriage is a covered dish.
Little troubles the eye, but far lesse the soul.
What good is giving sugar to the dead?
He who follows advice from women will end up in hell.
Charity is the spice of riches.
They that bourd with cats maun count upo' scarts. Thistles are a sailed for asses.
After the storm the sun comes out.
A drop of honey catches more flies than a hogshead of vinegar.
Let him speak who has seen with his eyes.
Good advice once was worth a camel; now that it is free of charge, no one takes it.
The soul is retained in it only by the prayer.
Hypocritical piety is double iniquity.
It is better to leave the child's nose dirty than wring it off.
There is no greater misfortune than your own.
He who pursues a hatched bird teaches it how to fly.
Every goodbye is the birth of a memory.
Those who waste time only hurt themselves.
The day cuts off the promise of the night.
Choose your neighbor before your house and your companion before the road.
He hangs out the dirty linen, to the public.
So you tell me there are wolves on the mountain, and foxes in the valley.
A rich man is either a scoundrel or the heir of a scoundrel.
On april 8th, the cuckoo's call must be heard.
Anything with scales counts as fish.
A knife and a shaving-knife are alike.
When your neighbor shaves, you start to wet your cheeks.
Misfortunes do not flourish on one path, they grow everywhere.
Eyes that don't see have less to lament.
Don't be hard and don't be soft and don't desert your friend for your own share.
The leopard's skin is beautiful, but his heart evil.
The start of a journey should never be mistaken for success.
Sometimes silence is the proper answer.
By poking at a bamboo thicket, one drives out a snake.
A light is still a light -- even though the blind man cannot see it.
He who steals incense smells of it.
Who is in fear of every leaf must not go into the wood.
No man is a hero in the eyes of his valet.
Don't sit among scoffers.
He that hath no honey in his pot, let him have it in his mouth.
Do not step on the dog's tail, and he will not bite you.
The lid rolled and found the cook.
The rain does not recognize anyone as a friend; it drenches all equally.
If there is still doubt do not accuse.
Fortune and glass break easily.
When brothers quarrel, take a hoe and go and dig; and when they make it up, take a basket and patter the crop.
Better to have than wish.
If you are sick, think about your life; if you are better, think about your gold.
An ignorant doctor is no better than a murderer.
A piss without a fart is a wedding without a violin.
When your beard appears, childhood disappears.
Better to give than to receive.
Times change.
He who is after two things at the same time, one will surely escape him.
You should make a new bucket whilst you still have the old one.
The first in the boat has the choice of oars.
To deny God's existence is like jumping with your eyes closed.
If you are ugly, be winsome.
A bowl should not laugh when a calabash breaks.
Evil be to him who evil thinks.
When you have touched a woman, you have struck a rock.
He who has to deal with a blockhead has need of much brains.
God's greatest act was to make one day follow another.
I don't count them to you, wife, but a hog makes twelve puddings.
The lack of gold only a headache.
There are mair foxes than there are holes for.
Smile... heaven is watching!
The friend who helps me and the enemy who does me no harm, make a pair of earrings.
Iron whets iron.
Energy is Eternal Delight. (William Blake)
A girl never grows into a lady.
A pestle upon a peg, and a mortar upon a clothes line.
Parents give birth to the body of their children, but not always to their characters.
The reaper earned a reputation and fell asleep.
Of no worldly good can the joy be perfect, unless it is shared by a friend.
A termite grows up in dry wood, and yet comes to maturity.
Sow good and you'll reap good; sow bad and you'll reap bad. You don't have to cut down a tree to get its fruit.
Do not allow the Gypsies to lure you out behind the furnace.
'Tis a sorry ass that will not bear his own burden.
When rat like fi romp ‘roun' puss jaw, one diay ‘im gwine en up inna puss craw.
From little acorns mighty oaks do grow.
If the eye does not want to see, neither light nor glasses will help.
Who picks a tool unsuited to a task should not complain if it does no more than cut the hand that holds it.
One should watch out for a very trifling or lame reason given for something that has been done.
It seems like folly to give comfits to a cow [Mod] – It can be fun anyway.
A snow year, a rich year.
The Potato grows in silence, The iron corrodes in silence.
The soul of an idiot is always dancing on the end of his tongue.
Earnestness and sport go well together.
He has drunk the juice of the flower of the wild aloe.
One follows bees will never fail to get honey.
The wedding lasts for two or three days, but the trouble stays longer.
If envy were a fever, all the world would be ill.
Until lions have their own historians, accounts of the hunt will always celebrate the hunter.
Although shrimps may dance around, they do not leave the river.
A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody.
Evil is of old date.
When you see gossamer flying, be sure the air is drying.
Not all the spikes of wheat go on the wheat pile.
The nose of him whose guide is a crow will never get out of the shit.
A peasant between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats.
You must answer the devil in his own language.
Unemployment does not guarantee leisure.
There is no virtue in the herb that is not got in time.
Force may lead to agreement, but truth will lead to conviction.
Before shooting, one must aim.
One always knocks oneself in the sore place.
Sour said the fox about rowan berries.
Every tale can be told in a different way.
The mouth does not eat if the feet do not walk and the hands work.
The sea aint got no backdoor; I can swim like lead.
When there are lots of insects, look for a good grain year.
The goat that has many owners will be left to die in the sun.
Whoever the cap fits takes it. • Let him whom the cap suits wear it.
Alas for those that get the worst of it!
Believe not a swearing man and a weeping woman.
He knows well where the thorn pricks him.
Ever since we wear clothes, we know not each other.
Lift where you stand.
Eat and take belly, because tomorrow the assistant of the executioner will come to take the skin.
Make love, not war.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: I climb a tree without arms.
Building and marrying of children are great wasters.
Even the goats will jump on a slanted tree.
It's not Easter every day.
Serve the Lord and you'll see what pain is.
I shall hold his Nose to the Grindstone.
He that has a full purse never wanted a friend.
Meaning: Opportunities should not be taken for granted. A problem ignored is a problem doubled.
The silence of the people is a warning for the king.
Choose your bedfellows by day.
Let the guts be full, for it is they that carry the legs.
Forgiven is not forgotten.
If you keep stirring at a girl you cannot have you will never see a girl you can have.
If love is torn apart you cannot stitch the pieces together again.
It is best to be on the safe side.
A restless grasshopper eventually ends up in a birds teeth.
In the deepest water is the best fishing. (1616)
In fair weather, in calm waters and in peaceful travel, even a coachman knows how to sail.
Better rew sit, nor rew flie.
A fool, unless he know Latin, is never a great fool.
Beware when you deal with sharpies.
Steal beams and replace them with poles.
Neighbor once over the hedge, neighbor over it again.
Abundance of things engenders disdainfulness.
You can hate the dog, but do not tell him that his teeth are dirty.
Extremes meet.
Wind from the east is good for neither man nor beast.
Long churning makes bad butter.
The more you stir the mire, the more it stinks.
Jealous about honor and careless about providing.
A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair.
Every hill has its valley.
What you don't know doesn't hurt you.
A guest does not get the food he expects but what he's served.
Nice guys finish last.
The loudest bell does not always have the sweetest tone.
Learned young is done old.
Even the maid has a family.
Make thyself a noble man before advising others.
If we let people see that kind of thing, there would never again be any war.
To get something one silently wishes for.
The barking of a dog does not disturb the man on a camel.
In love with the geliga (powerful stone in animals) inside the dragon's mouth.
If you do something wrong to me, I forgive you. But I know that someday God will make you hit the son of a chief on the head. Then the chief will punish you.
To teach is also to learn.
A little of anything isn't worth a pin; but a wee bit of sense is worth a lot.
Medicines be not meat to live by.
No matter who has died, I want to sing. But when I die, anyone can sing.
A log can not move save by the help of rollers.
Earth is the queen of beds.
A mother cannot give birth to something bigger than herself.
The devil's in the cards, said Sam, four aces and not a single trump.
The beginning hot, the middle lukewarm, the end cold.
A hero is one who knows how to hang on one minute longer.
It is better to turn back than go astray.
The priest's friend loses his faith, the doctor's his health, and the lawyer's his fortune.
Age lasts; youth devours.
The worst pig gets the best acorn.
A fool laughs at himself.
Easy to run downhill, much puffing to run up.
Often a troll-woman is under fair skin, and virtue under dark hair.
Trust in God but lock your doors.
Never seemed prison fair, or mistress foul.
Who has a bad wife, his hell begins on earth.
Abundance maketh poor.
He laughs well who laughs last.
He who throws a stone in the market will hit his relative.
There is no time like the present.
The wheel of karma always repeats itself. Just like wheels of a cart.
Chicago Tribune Staff, Charlie Trotter: How One Superstar Chef and His Iconic Chicago Restaurant Helped Revolutionize American Cuisine.
To live long is to suffer long.
Every fly has its shadow.
Don't waste good iron for nails or good men for soldiers.
The belly carries legs.
Consent to common custom, but not to common folly.
It is an absurdity that he should rule others who cannot command himself.
A fool can ask more questions than seven wise men can answer.
He whose ace gets cut on, gets his underpants off. When you cut, cut high. The Third Hand is the highest hand.
Nought is good for the eyes, but not for the stomach.
Doubt makes the mountain which faith can move.
Begun is half done.
Candlemas, candlemas, whether windy or rainy, winter has ended.
Empty vessels make much noise.
Who rids himself of his own freedom, always finds himself with worry and pain.
He goes safely to trial whose father is a judge.
If it jams, force it. If it breaks, it probably needed fixing anyway.
Things often happen when you least expect them to. Where we least think, there goes the hare away.
Your enemy makes you wiser.
When you are rich you suffer in a more comfortable way.
Everything is good in its season.
For fashion's sake as dogs gang to the market.
An honorable death requires no vengeance.
When something happens, praise it.
If a cat had a dowry, she would often be kissed.
The longest at the fire soonest finds cold.
Dont make sauce before catching fish.
If you do not have patience you cannot make beer.
I have nothing for dinner, sit down to table.
It is better to be without a wife for a bit than without tobacco for an hour.
A friend by you is better than a brother far off.
A house well-furnished makes a woman wise.
He who would be long an old man must begin betimes.
The cow that drops her calf in the sun feeds it there too.
One finds little ingratitude so long as one is in a position to grant favors.
As the old crow sings, so sing its fledglings.
A fight in your neighbor's house is refreshing.
A lawsuit for a maravedi consumes a real's worth of paper.
Talk of the devil, and you'll hear the rustle of his wings.
He who asks you to converse ends up telling others that you're shouting.
If the sky falls, hold up your hands.
When the branches of trees in the forest are fighting, the roots are kissing.
The tender winds of February will be paid in March.
Seven brothers in a council make wrong right.
It's a good marriage when he's twenty eight and she's eighteen.
No one says, ‘my yogurt is sour.'
No matter how poor a village, there is always one rich man.
Don't measure a wolf's tail until he is dead.
Never say: ‘of this water I will never drink.'
The best blessing for a good harvest is a pumpkin full of sweat.
The best of the mill is that the sacks can't speak.
Heart rather than appearance.
If relatives help each other, what evil can hurt them?
No man has fallen from the sky learned.
If the owner of a calabash calls it a worthless calabash, others will join him to use it to pack rubbish.
There is no happiness; there are only moments of happiness.
Bees that hae honey in their mouths hae stings in their tails.
Cure the illness that is not yet an illness.
Wine makes secrets float to the surface.
You don't milk a cow with your hands in your pockets.
The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
What you don't see with your eyes, don't witness with your mouth.
Let the sun shine on me, for I care not for the moon.
There are many colourful flowers on the path of life, but the prettiest have the sharpest thorns.
Bravery without foresight is like a blind horse.
He is ripe inside, like a water-melon.
God deliver me from a man of one book.
Time runs like the river current.
Navigate your vessel alone.
When you go to steal a sheep and you're succeeding, take a big one because the small one will grow.
He that is unkind to his own will not be kind to others.
Women only keep quiet about their age.
Sometimes a penny is better spent than saved.
The attempt exceeds the ability of one, not of a multitude.
Do not create in anger what you lack in reason.
If you kill a little hippopotamus, you also kill his mother.
What is unclearly said is unclearly thought.
The soft tongue is sucked by the lioness.
Money has the capability of making people laugh; but when they laugh, the foolish ones sometimes forget to close their mouths.
If you see an animal running in the early morning know that it is running away from something more scarily than the due.
Love is the true price at which love is bought.
You can trust your brother, your father, your mother, but never your wife.
For the sake of a single rose, the gardener becomes servant to a thousand thorns.
Dogs that bark much don't bite.
Steal goods and you'll go to prison, steal lands and you are a king.
Be not ashamed of your craft.
The laughter of a child lights up the house.
Think today and speak tomorrow.
Weighty work must be done with few words.
Better be the head of a rat than the tail of a lion.
The rotten apple injures its neighbour.
You may judge a man by his countenance.
You cannot handle fire with your hands.
It is good to sleep in a whole skin.
As for friars, live with them, eat with them, and walk with them; then sell them as they do themselves.
He who arrives too late finds the plate turned over.
If you can't help, don't hinder.
If all snakes live together in one place who would approach them.
Teaching in youth is like carving in stone.
The customer's always right.
There is no reply to the ignorant like keeping silence.
When the sun is highest it casts the least shadow.
Beads about the neck, and the devil in his heart.
I'll make the fur
Because we focused on the snake, we missed the scorpion.
Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give a bad example.
A laughing jackal portends a witch in the rafters.
Careless rat chewing on a cat's tail: beware lightning!.
Calm water does not mean there are no crocodiles.
A barking dog never bites.
Ants can attack with a grain of rice.
Cattle die, kinsmen die, and so shall you die too. But one thing I know that never dies: the fame of a dead man's deeds.
In the world all things are two and two.
Our elders say that at sunset, it is one's cloth that one goes to remove from the village square.
High winds blow on high hills.
If a man is not clean and smooth, there is nothing he can really do about pride.
Every little love captured as a playful spark becomes a great flame.
You can't fare well, but you must cry roast meat.
Trumpet in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cocks; bleat in a flock of goats.
You walk so long with a jar for water, until the handle breaks off.
Too far East is West.
Many will hate you if you love yourself.
Putting out a fire while holding firewood.
A beggar can never be bankrupt.
Nothing so bold as a blind mare.
All the flowers of all the tomorrows are in the seeds of today and yesterday.
Do as others do, and few will mock you.
A good dog gets a good bone.
The two make a pair.
The credit got by a lie lasts only till the truth comes out.
A woman is like mahogany: the older she is, the better she is.
If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die.
never let your tongue hit your neck.
Stand by your own whether right or wrong.
Death is a black camel which kneels at every man's gate.
Give a dog a tasty name and eat him.
Better wear out shoes than sheets.
Your ancestor's glory should not prevent you from winning your own.
Better be a tail for the lions than the head of the foxes.
Too many doctors too few medicines.
Better safe than sorry.
Any water in the desert will do.
Who invited you to the roast.
There are three uncertainties: woman, wind, and wealth.
An apple does not fall far from the tree.
He forges a virtue on necessity.
If you want a crop for one year, grow grain; if you want a crop for ten years, grow a tree; if you want a crop for a hundred years, grow men.
You trust the guard to a naked or unarmed man.
Jealous Hate the game and not the player.
A beggar on his feet is worth more than an emperor in his grave.
As there is guilt in innocence, there is innocence in guilt.
High birth is a poor dish on the table.
A crow is no whiter for being washed.
Don't throw out the dirty water until you have the clean water in.
It makes no sense to try to forge the iron whilst it is still cold.
Good and bad make up a city.
No one is content with his lot.
Order and do it, and you will be rid of anxiety.
Who takes a lion at a distance fears a mole present.
We can enjoy nothing without some one to share the pleasure.
The bad head does not give rest to the legs, and the cunning ass does not give rest to the legs, arms, or head.
It's awful, I hate it” is hardly the other side of "That is beautiful and I loved it.”.
Don't leh de devil get into me now.
He that cheateth in small things is a fool, but in great things is a rogue.
It's easy to take Kati to the dance, if she is also willing.
If you are eager to be in the shadow, leave your axe at home.
Unity is power.
All do not beg for one saint.
To go in one ear and out the other.
An excess of caution does no harm.
Transactions in Hell also depend upon money.
The best driver will sometimes upset.
He who is anxious for the death of another has a long rope to pull.
A newborn baby has no fear of tigers.
The rack can extort a false confession from the innocent.
The sun cannot be hidden by two fingers.
An empty knapsack is heavier to carry than a full one.
It's natural to have some disagreement between husband and wife.
A lie can travel faster than truth.
Custom and law are sisters.
A fall bodes a lucky journey from the house but not toward it.
A courageous foe is better than a cowardly friend.
None so deaf as those who won't hear.
He who was left by the bald is taken by the hairy.
The mice will never play with the kittens.
What is done no longer needs to be done.
All things grow with time -- except grief.
He that does you a very ill turn will never forgive you.
Crows are black the world over.
Abundance of money is a trial for a man.
Chicken are beautiful because of their feathers, women are beautiful because of their make-up.
The one in a hurry, will have a raw and hot meal.
The tall one wouldn't bend; the short one wouldn't stretch and the kiss was lost.
Kissing is cried down since the shaking o' hands.
One must not confuse speed with haste.
There is no getting blood from a turnip.
The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself.
Even the bottom of a basket finds something to hold.
Pain past is pleasure.
Don't judge the dog from its hairs.
If you turn into a dog, be sure to choose a rich family.
Gold glitters in what is thrown away.
If you see someone riding a bamboo-cane, tell him "What a lovely horse!"
A sweet lovely voice cannot make a dumb person talk.
A cow must graze where she is tied.
Trust not a new friend or an old enemy.
There is no phrase without a double meaning.
Who reminds of an old thing will have his eye picked out.
If you cannot dance, you will say the drumming is poor.
Gambling sire, gambling son.
We are all equal before death.
The first day you see a friend; the next day, a brother.
When the hyena drinks, the dog can only look on.
It's easier for the horses when the woman gets off the cart.
A civil denial is better than a rude grant.
It would be a very big book that contained all the maybes uttered in a day.
He who serves the Tsar cannot serve his people.
A penny is a lot of money–if you haven't got a penny.
Where law ends, tyranny begins.
Sunshine all the time makes a desert.
You can't see the sun when you're crying.
Never show the truth naked -- just in its shirt.
It is no sin to sell dear, but a sin to give ill measure.
The candle that goes before gives the best light.
Conscience is the dog that can't bite, but never stops barking.
A rat is not born a rabbit.
With a mule you have a son, with a son-in-law you only have a mule.
If you let everyone walk over you, then you become a carpet.
A wilful man must have his way.
One sword keeps another in its scabbard.
Between neighbors' gardens a hedge is not amiss.
Life is not a cup to be drained, but a measure to be filled.
No one puts his finger back where it was once bitten.
On a thief, the hat's on fire.
He wants to fly before he has wings.
Every one thinks that all the bells echo his own thoughts.
We traded in shrouds; people stopped dying.
In Polizzi you'll find water, fog, kites, priests with children, commissions and delegates.
It's too late to rise early when you wake eleven o'clock.
Credulity breeds credulity and ends in hypocrisy.
Mouth to ears and the stomach to knees when you eat rich man's food!
Great minds think alike.
When your son is young, discipline him; when he grows older, be a brother to him.
The ruin of a nation begins in the homes of its people.
It is useless to gape against an oven.
Of listening children have your fears, for little pitchers have great ears.
He who has no faults is not born.
A country without freedom is like a prisoner with shackled hands.
As a crab walks, so walk its children.
Power corrupts.
The pig in the sty doesn't know the pig going along the road.
The sea has an enormous thirst and an insatiable appetite.
The cat is a good friend, only she scratches.
Patient without any pain, the dog is lame when it wants to.
One knavery is met by another.
By falling we earn to go safely.
To question a wise man is the beginning of wisdom.
Get overripe before partly ripe.
It isn't the whistle that pulls the train.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
The speaker may well be a fool but the listener is wise.
He that is more civil than usual, either wants to cozen you or has need of you.
When the music changes, then the rhythm of the dance must change also.
Noh put yu cap wh? yu caang reach it.
The Swiss Psalm is the national anthem of Switzerland.
Lenin's truth makes great strides all around the world.
Penny and penny laid up will be many.
A bad peace is better than a good quarrel.
Ane ill word begets another, and it were at at the Bridge at London.
Desperate cuts must have desperate cures.
He who leaves and then returns, had a good trip.
He who has nothing cannot let go of anything.
No rain without clouds.
January commits the sin and May gets blamed.
New brooms sweep clean.
I wept when I was born, and every day shows why.
If you are ugly, learn how to dance.
A good painter need not give a name to his picture, a bad one must.
Every doctor thinks his pills the best.
Don't drive a Binya into the woods if he has found his way to your house.
For each wise man there are plenty of fools.
The strong will protect the weak and, in return, the weak will serve the strong.
The ass does not know the worth of this tail till he has lost it.
Never venture out of your depth till you can swim.
Tread on thorns with your shoes on.
However long the dry season takes a seasonal river will never forget where it used to pass.
You must kill the spider to get rid of the cobweb.
He likes nae beef that grows on my banes.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he don't trot, but gallops.
He is no friend that eats his own by himself, and mine with me.
A fly, a harlot, a beggar, a rat, and gusty wind; the village-boss and the tax collector – these seven are always annoying to others.
The sun shines for everyone.
Horses become acquainted by neighing, people by talking.
He who eats an egg foregoes a future meal of chicken soup.
A fox smells its own stink first.
One camel does not make fun of the other camel's hump.
He that keeps not his arms in time of peace will have none in time of war.
As to what is future, even a bird with a long neck cannot see it, but God only.
A forest cannot be cut with a broken axe.
With patience, mulberry leaves become satin.
If you can't use your eyes, follow your nose.
It has caused injury and will do so again.
The more you stir it the more it stinks.
To censure princes is perilous, and to praise them is lying.
The sun will shine on those who stand before it shines on those who kneel under them.
A fool is thirsty in the midst of water.
Men trip not on mountains, they trip on molehills.
Riches are gotten with pain, kept with care, and lost with grief.
A warm fire is better than delicious cooked rice.
Vicious as a tigress can be, she never eats her own cubs.
Silence gives consent. (14th century)
Let his ain wand ding him.
Money comes in from doors and windows!
Dictators ride to and fro upon tigers which they dare not dismount.
The power of the world always works in circles.
A child who is fearless is going to bring tears to his mother's eyes.
He who wants to catch foxes must hunt with geese.
The belly is a bad adviser.
The water you collect from the stream teaches you about its source.
For the sake of the rose the thorn is watered too.
Sorrow is like rice in an attic: you use a little every day and at the end it is all gone.
Dare a tenner sa coe de s'ambidda.
The sun will shine on those who stand before its shines and on those who kneel after under them.
A tiger wearing a bell will starve.
Wise rising gives joy.
It's a cold coal to blow at.
The braying of an ass does not reach heaven.
Mistrust is an axe in the tree of love.
He who makes more of you than usual either designs to cheat you or wants your assistance.
Don't buy the house, buy the neighborhood.
You harp perpetually on the same string.
One shares food not words.
It's the thought that counts.
God's mill grinds very finely.
A list full of gain and a village full of shame.
Justice pleaseth few in their own house.
When vultures surround you, try not to die.
If you would be respected in company, seek the society of your equals and not of your superiors.
The is unnecessary to make a fuss of any sort of thrash.
If the best man's faults were written on his forehead, it would make him pull his hat over his eyes.
There is but an hour a day between a good housewife and a bad one.
Like bamboo shoots after rain.
The baby has not been born yet, and yet you assert that his nose is like his grandfather's.
If you wish your merit to be known, acknowledge that of other people.
Anxiety will not let you die of hunger.
Only the person who wears the shoe feels it when it pitches.
Dignity is one thing that can't be preserved in alcohol.
A forest is the poor man's overcoat.
To lose is to learn.
A decent cowboy does not take what belongs to someone else and if he does he deserves to be strung up and left for the flies and coyotes.
All freight lightens, said the skipper, when he threw his wife overboard.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter a pig and you will be happy for a month; become a priest and you will be happy for the rest of your life.
It is the quiet pigs that eat the meal.
Chains of gold are stronger than chains of iron.
A girl, a vineyard, an orchard, and a bean-field, are hard to watch.
An iron rod bends while it is hot.
In this world a pint of sweetness and a barrel of bitterness.
It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg, that another has broken his neck.
Monks, mice, rats, vermin, seldom sunder without harming.
Love's anger is fuel to love.
Wisdom consists of ten parts -- nine parts of silence and one part with few words.
More kids are dying than old goats.
Morning rain and women's tears dry as fast as each other.
Better, ‘There he goes', than ‘There he hangs'.
Justice is better than admiration If you are going to kill, then kill an elephant; if you are going to steal make sure it's a treasure.
Two watermelons can't be grabbed in one hand.
He sups ill who eats up all at dinner.
Better to aim at comfort' than at luxury.
A wound heals but the scar remains.
One man's house burns so that another may warm himself.
The end of the grape cluster.
One does not sharpen the axes after the right time; after the time they are needed.
Old oxen have stiff horns.
Bring up a raven, and he will peck out your eyes.
A wise man does not lose his way, a brave man does not fear.
One timely shout is better than constant talk.
Who's lazy when living will be lazy when dying.
Wine mars beauty and destroys the freshness of youth.
The sober man's secret is the drunkard's speech.
Sike a man as thou would be, draw thee to sike company.
It is easier to win good luck than to retain it.
The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
Whoever tears his clothes must mend them himself.
Prescribe the right medicine for a symptom.
What orators lack in depth, they make up for in length.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
Nobody is shamed twice.
His cloak was put out.
I complained I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
Take a woman's first advice and not her second.
Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large numbers.
Goodness is the only investment that never fails.
The mother is there, so is the child. Now all we need is the rain.
You shout in vain when you're calling the deaf.
The ripest fruit will not fall into your mouth.
If you carry the egg basket do not dance.
The wolf dances round the well.
Don't build bigger houses than you may set roofs on.
Bad is the sack that will not bear patching.
Wriggling hands like young bride's legs.
Worldly prosperity is like writing on water.
They ate our food, and forgot our names.
Pick and choose, and take the worst.
Teach an eagle to fly, a dolphin to swim.
Cleanliness is next to godliness.
Wherever there are women there's talking, and wherever there's geese there's cackling.
Meat is much, but manners is better.
Who reminds old, will be deprived of his eye.
To 'get out of my house.' or 'what do you want with my wife?' there is no answer.
Small ills are the fountains of most of our groans. Men trip not on mountains, they stumble on stones.
You can't catch fish on a dry line.
The monkey in his mother's eye is a gazelle.
A good remedy for anger is delay.
Provide for the worst; the best can take care of itself.
The soldier's blood exalts the captain.
Do you want to see a wolf with young? Marry your daughter.
Roses fall, but the thorns remain.
The bands of Palermo and the privileges of Messina.
A lame cat is better than a swift horse when rats infest the palace.
Once is people's mouths, 'tis hard to get well out of them.
A tongue has no bone.
Silence is the voice of complicity.
Too much is worse than too little.
Dog eat ya lunch.
They will be hushed by a good deed who laugh at a wise speech.
You cannot swallow medicine pills without letting the throat know.
You can hide wine in a gourd but not in the belly.
The more you stroke the cat, the more he raises his tail.
Nobody is born wise.
The greedy man and the gileynour are weel met.
A bad bush is better than an open field.
Once you have found your rhythm, you will then know your God.
The devil makes work for idle hands.
What doesn't kill, hardens.
Many ants kill a camel.
The wolf told the dog: It does not matter that I run and you follow me, what matters is that when I turn around you will be next to me.
There is rarely gain without deception.
Perseverance is failing nineteen times and succeeding the twentieth.
Those who get to the river early drink the cleanest water.
A good joke is a penny worth.
Sorrow doesn't kill - reckless joy does.
He who insults another, digs two graves.
If you wish another to keep your secret, first keep it yourself.
The crow wanted to mimic the pigeon's walk and forgot his own.
He who hunts two rats, catches none.
With the old year leave your faults, however dear.
The least and weakest man can do some hurt.
It takes more than one cold day for a river to freeze three feet deep.
A woman who hugs and squeezes you has deceived you or is seeking to deceive you.
Man is a hunter.
He that stirs honey will have some of it stick to him.
The hyena sleeps with the sheep.
My friend's enemy is often my best friend.
The son of a son is dear, the son of a daughter a stranger.
If you hurt the reputation of another, you damage your own.
Whatever has bloomed, has bloomed from the very bud.
Let's fight, let's fight, no one knows whom fighting would favor.
Give a clown your finger, and he will take your hand.
Little talk is easy to cure.
The pigeon brings the makings and the chick makes the nest.
Three may keep counsel if twa be away.
Never advise anyone to go to war or to marry.
Ye hae the best end a' the string.
Cap no fit you, you no tek i' up.
The waggon must go whither the horses draw it.
Of all meat in the world drink goes down the best.
The bites of priests and wolves are hard to heal.
Long sausage and short sermon are good.
Unspoken words are the flowers of silence.
A better seldom comes after.
Patience is the art of hoping.
Never kick a cow chip on a hot day.
A bad agreement is better than a good verdict.
The virtuous will be praised but not envied.
The dawn does not come twice to awaken a man.
He that does his turn in time, sits half idle.
The mighty man is master of the earth.
A fair face, foul heart.
One bird in hand is better far Than two that in the bushes are.
When the mother dies the father becomes an uncle.
Receive and rejoice, antonio, it's your celebration; always receive and never restrain.
From children you must expect childish acts.
More flies are taken with a drop of honey than a tun of vinegar.
He whets his teeth on something.
The bean paste that smells like bean paste is not the best quality.
The barking of the dogs will not disturb the clouds.
Envy crieth of spite where honour rideth.
You cannot make an omelet without breaking eggs.
To enjoy a grander sight, climb to a greater height.
A fools knows his own business better than a wise man knows that of others.
If you are saved from the lion, do not be greedy and hunt it.
A drop does not kill, and you won't drown in a bucket.
The pot upbraids the kettle that it is black.
The bowman who is a bad marksman has a lie ready.
Who says the oasis in the desert is happy because of its hidden spring of water?
It is not till the cow has lost her tail, that she discovers its value.
Words are like eggs: when they are hatched they have wings.
A lie runs until it is overtaken by the truth.
A whore in spring, a nun in autumn.
It ill becomes a carpenter to be heavy-handed, a smith to be shake-handed, or a physician to be tenderhearted.
He who doesn't clean his mouth before breakfast always complains that the food is sour.
Advice is a stranger; if he's welcome he stays for the night; if not, he leaves the same day.
The ass that is hungry eats thistles.
A monkey is a gazelle in its mother's eyes.
Praise of the moon the god.
The foot of the owner is the best manure for his land.
A hidden sin is half forgiven.
Knowing just one word of wisdom is like knowing a hundred ordinary words.
Bad hearing is a good helper.
The tiger depends on the forest; the forest depends on the tiger.
Custom is stronger than law.
Things of today, accomplished today.
Good weight and measure, are heaven's treasure.
Make a friend of the wolf, but keep your axe ready.
Not everybody who wears spurs is a jockey.
The bad calligrapher is choosy about his brushes.
An unhappy mans Cairt is eith to tumble.
God gives the will, necessity gives the law.
A little axe can cut down a big tree.
A full pistol scares one person, an emty one scares forty people.
The zawan of your own country is better than the wheat of strangers.
The water from the river becomes salty when it reaches the ocean.
Better a bare foot than none.
Better a good neighbour than a distant friend.
Repay evil with good, and hell will not claim you.
Joking must have its proper limit.
When the crocodile says that the river crossing is deep you must believe it.
He that buildeth upon the highway hath many advisers.
Who burned himself with hot milk blows on ice cream.
My daughter, as long as you keep quiet, much money will paid for your marriage.
Thanks to one small candle the whole of Moscow burns.
Much straw and little corn.
He that follows freits, freits will follow him.
We have two ears and one mouth that we may listen the more and talk the less.
The higher the monkey goes the more he shows his tail.
If you can't distinguish how to whistle a festival alarm from a warning alarm.
Life is like this: sometimes sun, sometimes rain.
Love your friend with his fault.
After one vice a greater follows.
Quarrels end, but words once spoken never die.
A good leader makes a good follower.
Love is like young rice: transplanted, still it grows.
It's the same donkey, but with a new saddle.
The one you minimise could be eating meat everyday.
Blow, smith, and you'll get money.
When the nile knows a secret the desert will soon know it too.
Envy accomplishes nothing.
Everyone is wise until he speaks.
Nothing is gained without taking risks.
He who cannot boast cannot succeed.
The mouth is the shield to protect oneself.
It will be fool's hardy for the ant to chase an elephant.
A child does not laugh at the ugliness of his mother.
He would slaughter a bug to drink its blood.
Plow with the oxen and seed with the cows at their own pace.
Slander leaves a score behind it.
Success makes a fool seem wise.
Let everyone pick his own nose.
Marriage has teeth, and him bite very hot.
One measures the towers by their shadows and great people by those who envy them.
Don't throw pearls to the swine.
Do not make the dress before the child is born.
Who loans his ass to someone else should shit through his ribs.
The smoke of a man's own house is better than the fire of another's.
Hunger is not your aunt.
Not until just before dawn do people sleep best; not until people get old do they become wise.
It's five yards from Kärkölä to hell.
Leading by example is better than giving and advice.
I've decided that I won't marry this young the second time, said Vaalsteeni.
He who judges between two friends loses one of them.
A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound.
He steals the mascara from her eyes.
Within the four seas all man are brethren.
You can wait till the cows come home.
A good rest is half the job.
Before marriage open your eyes wide; afterwards close them tightly.
Everyone speaks well of the bridge which carries him over.
You can't bind a cloud even with copper chains.
A bird may be ever so small, it always seeks a nest of its own.
Iceland is the best land on which the sun shines.
A mouse in time may bite in two a cable.
God bless him who pays visits -- short visits.
The best surgeon is he that has been well hacked himself.
A wise woman has much to say and yet remains silent.
There are no secrets in the world.
Better a dove on the plate than a woodgrouse in the mating place.
The wife cries before the wedding, the husband after.
Everybody sees only his own dish.
Might goes before right.
Asleep in the morning, awake in the evening will destroy the house.
Plough or not plough, you must pay your rent.
The truth is bitter and lies are sweet.
Customs are stronger than laws.
On dry land even brackish water is good.
The bud becomes a rose and the rose a hip.
By coming and going, a bird constructs its nest.
No wheat without chaff.
If a dog bites you, you don't attack it but you attack its owner.
If you don't believe in cooperation, watch what happens to a wagon when one wheel comes off.
A sandal is not a shoe; a cap is not a turban.
Who is inferior and is ashamed of it proves that he really is inferior.
Se e ma în do mincion de Adam in scià.
A friend is worth more than a brother.
Burn a good maltese; let alone a bad one.
The best cloth has uneven threads.
The world at large doesn't lead to hell nor does the monastery lead to heaven.
Every little pot has a fitting lid.
It can be impossible to change an established image.
Do not spit into the well you may have to drink of.
Much chatter, little wit.
He who is ignorant at home is ignorant abroad.
Don't let the windows of your home be so small that the light of the sun cannot enter your rooms.
An elephant has enormous dung -- don't try to defecate like an elephant. Don't try to wipe someone else's ass if yours is unwiped.
Every grain has its bran.
The wind fells the oak, but cannot cope with the reed.
The old never lack for a story when they're standing in the sun or in front of a warm fireplace.
Laughing is not always the proof of a mind at ease.
A misfortune and a friar seldom go alone.
As a child, is a man wrapped in his mother's womb; as an adult, in tradition; comes death, and he is wrapped in earth.
You can judge a man by the company he keeps.
A kind word warms a man through three winters.
Drink beer, think beer.
Cheat me in the price, but not in the goods.
If a bird knew how poor he was it wouldn't sing so beautifully.
Kindle not a fire that you cannot extinguish.
Nae friend to a friend in need.
A little knowledge is dangerous. Drink deep, or taste not the puritan waters.
He who speaks too much works too little.
When the moon is pale, it will rain; when it's red, it will be windy and when it's clear, it will be serene.
When it is God's will to plague a man, a mouse can bite him to death.
To stay together is to know each other.
With happiness comes intelligence to the heart.
Despise not a snail for its slow and struggling movement; it has a destination and with time it shall arrive.
One moment is worth more than a thousand gold pieces.
The head of a dragon, the tail of a snake.
More die of food than famine.
If there were no tears, our ribs would burn.
And Modesty, who, when she goes, Is gone for ever.
What would a young cat do but eat mice.
The prolonged visit of no guest is pleasant.
If you beat spice it will smell the sweeter.
When a poor man eats a chicken, one or the other is sick.
He who does not improve to-day will grow worse to-morrow.
Self-help is the best help.
Neither handsome enough to kill nor ugly enough to frighten away.
The clash of ideas brings forth the spark of truth.
He that lives on hope has but a slender diet.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
A good meal ought to begin with hunger.
A calm portends a storm.
The cat's play is the mouse's death.
Army marches on its stomach.
A joke is often the hole through which truth whistles.
From you motion, from God blessing.
Carrick for a man, kyle for a coo, cunningham for corn and ale, and a galloway for woo'.
The soldiers fight, and the kings are heroes.
Weil worth aw, that gars the plough draw.
You should always prefer wind to water.
A spooked crow is afraid of a bush.
He who sleeps in a silver bed has golden dreams.
We have two seasons: winter and the Fourth of July.
It's not the fault of the pig, but of the one who scratches his back.
Keep the weekdays honest and it will be easy to keep the Sabbath holy.
In prosperity you may count on many friends; if the sky becomes overcast you will be alone.
Time heals old pain, while it creates new ones.
Better the foot slip than the tongue.
All the world loves a lover.
A cock is bold on his own dunghill.
All are not cooks who wear long knives.
When God gives, he doesn't ask whose son a person is.
Loving and singing are not to be forced.
You can only lean against that which resists.
A cloak is not made for a single shower of rain.
Palermo for its illustrious writers and Messina for its harbor.
We shall hear, we are on the side towards which the wind blows.
Still water runs deep.
The man who minds his own business generally has a good one.
Speak, for God spoke to Moses.
What does the moon care if the dogs bark at her?
The mad dog bites its master.
Don't think there are no crocodiles just because the water's calm.
Virtue is the reward.
To drunken mothers-in-law give full jugs.
We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through.
He who boasts of his descent is like a potato: the best part is underground.
The female of the species is more deadly than the male.
Ask my comrade, who is as great a liar as myself.
Never was a mewing cat a good mouser.
Better a thief for a neighbor than an overzealous rabbi.
A righteous man by praise will render thee firm in favor and love.
He needs a long candle who awaits the death of another.
Everybody loves a lord.
Dog that barks doesn't bite.
After bad weather comes fine weather.
Under a good cloak may be a bad man.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Though the fox runs, the pullets have wings.
If she's a nun in the abbey, she treats Jesus as an owner, but if she's a nun in the home, she serves Jesus and kisses him.
If you will learn news, you must go to the oven or the mill.
The tears of an heir are laughter under a mask.
A Portuguese apprentice who can't sew, yet would be cutting out.
Many a one would like to lay his own shame on another man's back.
It's the squeaky wheel that gets the grease.
Of the good we have an understanding, for fools we keep a stick upstairs.
What is lost in the fire must be sought in the ashes.
To pretend to satisfy one's desires with worldly goods is like using straw to put out a fire.
A Christmas wish - may you never forget what is worth remembering, or remember what is best forgotten.
What has been blown away, cannot be found again.
I saw you at Lucca, I knew you at Pisa.
You need to first experience adversity, before you can handle high praise.
Though this be madness, yet there is method in't. (William Shakespeare)
A bad workman quarrels with his tools. (1640)
He who greets with a stick, will be answered with a club.
Don't rock the boat.
A good beast heats with eating.
There came never ill of good Advisement.
If an eagle is no good, cut it's feathers off.
Goose and gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing.
Gratitude ranks as the least of virtues, and the lack of gratitude is the worst of vices.
One can never repay one's debt to one's mother.
He who sleeps catches no fish.
In politics, a man must learn to rise above principle.
A handsome woman is either silly or vain.
Until spring comes, nightingales do not sing.
If the olive trees blossom in April, you'll have enough to collect them with barrels; if they bud in May, you'll have enough to fill a small measure; but if as late as June, you'll only be collecting handfuls.
Where there is no honey, we have to make do with treacle.
I am neither at the ford nor the bridge.
A dead man does not make war.
As people go their own way, destiny goes with them.
From saying to doing is a long way.
The melon seller does not announce, "Bitter melons." Distant water does not put out a nearby fire.
He that makes a fire of straw has much smoke but little warmth.
He who stumbles and does not fall mends his pace.
First God, then the white man.
Ownership is to fear.
If you take your tongue to the pawnshop, you can't redeem it later.
Good right needs good help.
When the fox cannot reach the grapes he says they are not ripe.
Anyone who lives will know trying times.
Don't try to sell pumpkins to a gardener.
For wolf's flesh dog sauce.
A heavy burden does not kill on the day it is carried.
Let every day provide for itself and God send Sunday.
You cackle often, but never lay an egg.
One bamboo does not make a forest.
What darg see him bark all night, ramgoat see it no trouble him.
Winter finds out what summer lays up.
The hunt is like a dance for men, for the women the dance is the hunt.
Even the highest towers begin at the ground.
He ain't even loss he mudda features yet.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
We forget even incense in easy times; come hard times, we embrace the buddha's feet.
War does not determine who is right, only who is remaining.
Never was hood so holy but the devil could get his head into it.
You can't order a goat to eat the hyena.
Thrift is a great revenue.
Property will not earn life, but life will earn property.
Worth makes the man and want of it the fellow.
Without a leader, black ants are confused.
Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
What comes from the lips reaches the ears, what comes from the heart reaches the heart.
That you eat in the morning passes you through the day.
Nothing is certain but the unforeseen.
A day of fasting is the eve of a feast.
Entreat the churl and the bargain is broken off.
An empty stomach will not listen to anything.
Meaning: When a wife cooks well the husband will love her until the end of life.
The elephant and the tiger do not go hunting on the same pasture.
Hush, lest the wind arise.
Faster than thoughts.
Dead men tell no tales.
Where the wasp has passed the fly sticks fast.
Boys will be boys.
Keep your tongue a prisoner, and your body will gang free.
An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
When the hunter returns and is holding mushrooms, don't ask him about how his hunt went.
Comparison is not proof.
The broth is cooking, and now we have to act as one.
If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to.
A wreck on shore is a beacon at sea.
The pot calls the kettle black.
Although pepper is tiny, its taste is intense.
Your woman should be in the house or in the grave.
The owner of the house knows where his roof leaks.
He who is born a mule can never be a horse.
He that rewards flattery, begs it.
Fortune, and go to sleep.
You cannot be a mouse and a bat at the same time.
Cleanliness is half your health.
Keeping yourself and your food clean, you'll get more from it.
Get the coffin ready and watch the man mend.
Silence is the soul of negotiation.
The lance never blunted the pen, nor the pen the lance.
Watch out for the unexpected mushroom.
The husband is always the last to know.
Do not mend your neighbor's fence before seeing to your own.
You must row the boat you're in.
A blind person who sees is better than a seeing person who is blind.
An animal's end is slaughter.
Of what use is it that the cow gives plenty of milk, if she upset the pail.
Eating without sharing is like swearing with your mouth.
Those who do not study are only cattle dressed up in men's clothes.
He that wad eat the kernel maun crack the nut.
A man laughs at others and weeps for himself.
A long pull and a strong pull and a pull altogether.
A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom.
According to his pinions the bird flies.
A white glove often conceals a dirty hand.
Call a pot, just don't put into the oven.
If you close your eyes because of the bad people around you, you will not see the good people passing by.
Riches are found in cultivating together.
Every laborer is worthy of his hire.
For ill do well, Then fear not hell.
Runaway son, a shining jewel; runaway daughter, tarnished.
Under white ashes there is glowing coal.
It's better who God helps than who early arouses.
Who loves cats has a beautiful wife.
In war time there is pay for every horse.
Who hears music feels his solitude.
Judge not the horse by his saddle.
When asked, "What news from the sea?” The fish replied "I have a lot to say, but my mouth is full of water.”.
The more responsibilities a man assumes, the more likely he is to meet them.
Good-will should be tane in part of payment.
A crow sits next to a crow.
Hunger is a good cook.
Fly that pleasure which pains afterward.
Who gives sell, sells dear, if the receiver be not a churl.
Whoever gossips about his relatives has no luck and no blessing.
The insect that eats the leaf is under the leaf.
God sends meat and the devil sends cooks.
Who is righteous overmuch is a morsel for the Old One.
God will be present, whether asked or not.
It's a cracked pitcher that goes longest to the well.
Not all the words that were ever uttered are worth weighing on golden scales.
Every family has a goodness of mercy.
A slip of the foot may soon be recovered; but that of the tongue perhaps never.
Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it.
The more acquaintances, the more danger.
The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their right names.
Forced love does not last.
Silence is an attribute of the dead; he who is alive speaks.
The fox does not prey near his hole.
If you would have the lamp burn, you must pour oil into it.
What is noticed by his eyes, will not be left there by his hands.
No peacock envies another peacock his tail.
He that borrows and bigs; makes feasts and thigs; drinks and is not.
Do not tell all that you know, don't believe all you hear, and don't do all that you can.
Don't raise your stick and the dog won't bark at you.
Abandon all hope, ye who enter here.
It is difficult to throw a stone at a lizard which is clinging to a pot.
One bird in the hand is worth four in the air.
Be satisfied with the needs instead of the wants.
Plough wet or dry, and you will not have to kiss your neighbour's breech.
Love is deed and not fine phrases.
Sometimes it takes only an hour to get a reputation that lasts for a thousand years.
Once deep pools, now a crossing place.
Neither serve one who has been a servant, nor beg of one who has been a beggar.
He gains enough who loses sorrow.
Even a one-inch insect has a half-inch soul.
Bucket wid hole a battam have no business a riverside.
Different men have different opinions; Some like apples, some onions.
Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the "guilty" list.
Where vice is vengeance follows.
When the partridge sings in the stone quarry bring the wood into the haystack.
You can't take a second drink unless you have taken a first.
Pretend to be dead and the bull will leave you alone.
An overbearing wife and a shouting husband will never be in peace.
Go not with every ailment to the doctor, with every plea to the lawyer, or with every thirst to the can.
Fair and softly goes far in a day.
The wolf is upset about what he left behind.
When the vine entwines your roof, it is time to cut it down.
It was needed as a Slovak glazier needed falling on his back.
Of words and feathers, it takes many to make a pound.
He has command of the sack who is seated on it.
No matter how high a bird can fly, it still has to look for food on the ground.
God is big, but the forest is bigger.
Hell is empty and all the devils are here. (William Shakespeare)
It's good to be clever, but not to show it.
Walk till the blood appears on the cheek, but not the sweat on the brow.
Never judge by first impressions.
He that takes the devil into his boat must carry him over the sound.
An accuser may not act as a defender.
One's own hearth is gowd's worth.
A single hand can not nurse a child.
Faintheart is always in danger.
A sitting crow starves.
There is no physician who can cure the disease of love.
The monkey does not see his own hind backside; he sees his neighbor's.
Man is wife's head, eats what she has left.
A rap on the ringed finger does not hurt.
To get lost is to learn the way.
A belt fastened while running will come undone while running.
Seven people do not wait for one person.
When you come back from a trip bring something for the family -- even if it is only a stone.
My enemy's liver is the sheath of my sword.
You cannot fly with wings made of butter.
It is better to be lucky than to be an early riser.
Wine sets an edge to wit.
Too much hope deceives.
A man in this world without learning is as a beast of the field.
We are all flesh and blood.
Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it will make you sweat a lot.
Who sieves too much keeps the rubbish.
If a dog is driven by a stick after a hare, he will not catch it.
A king's face should show grace.
To get out of the bed on the wrong side.
Don't boast of tomorrow, for you know not what a day will bring.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
The way a house is decorated will tell much about its owner.
A rose is a rose is a rose.
Surfeit slayes mae nor the sword.
He who knows only few things, has little to forget.
Fortune and flowers do not last forever.
Love, fire, a cough, the itch, and gout are not to be concealed.
Laugh with those that laugh.
He who eats the king's cow lean, pays for it fat.
The priest's pot is small but tasty.
The best doctor is to be found in hell.
Absence is the mother of disillusion.
Nobody leaves this world alive.
A man's word is his honor.
A good deed that is repaid by a bad deed.
Every land hes his lauch, and every corne hes the caff.
Borrowing is bad, and paying back is always a loss.
One who waits patiently will catch a big fish.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan.
Sloth is the mother of poverty.
Out of sight... Out of mind.
To dance according to someones pipe.
There the hedge is lowest, men leap over.
You never value something as much as when it's gone.
Wealth belongs to the person who enjoys it and not to the one who keeps it.
Everyone is the age of their heart.
A big nose never spoiled a handsome face.
Scabbed horse cannot abide the comb.
The good fellow to everyone is a good friend to no one.
Eggs and metal do not go in the same basket.
If you want to sit under a shade in your old age plant a tree now.
You can't move faster than your shadow.
The rich devour the poor, and the devil devours the rich and so both are devoured.
Life is short and full of blisters.
Five fingers hold more than two forks.
If power can be bought then sell your mother to get it.
Every pot has its cover.
Follow bees and you will get honey.
Having a goal is just a dream with a deadline.
A field held in common is always ravaged by bears.
A woman who pursues a man for sex looses her spiritual beauty.
A sword anointed with honey.
You can tell an educated person by their talk and bells by their ringing.
[Theу/we] Ate and drank and make merry. Then [they/we] counted and shed tears.
One thread from [everyone in] the world - [makes a] shirt for [the] naked.
Stolen fruit is sweet.
Don't sell the bearskin before the bear is dead.
He who prizes little things is worthy of great ones.
Give up the smallest part of a secret, and the rest is no longer in your power.
The itch that gives someone skill is difficult to scratch.
Man shoots, God carries the bullets.
Kissing goes by favor.
Loneliness is a nest for the thoughts.
Some have fine eyes and can't see a jot.
The ass that is common property is always the worst saddled.
Many trades, begging the best.
Shun the friendship of a lying man. Should you contract a friendship with him, be on your guard.
In a no-win situation where all the possible solutions present has terrible consequences.
Loving someone that does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest.
A spark may raise An awful blaze.
The medicine that cures the tailor can kill the shoemaker.
Patience is the most beautiful prayer.
Women are stronger than men, they do not die of wisdom.
Everyone thinks his own cross is heaviest.
A green Christmas makes a fat churchyard.
Don't spend the evening in a house where you can't spend the night. A good name is better than good perfume. After the hyena has gone, the dog barks.
A man who believes that he can do everything, let him dig a grave and bury himself.
Discipline is preserved hatred.
Judge wine by its taste, and bread by its color.
Two boys are half a boy, and three boys are no boy at all.
Fancy passes beauty.
Pick the lesser of the two evils.
Stretch hide while it is still green.
Despise school and remain a fool.
Even the clock shows the time without knowing anything.
If a falcon hunts mice he is worthless.
Visiting is good, but home is better.
We are what our thinking makes us.
The fates lead the willing man; an unwilling man they drag.
He that would the daughter win Must with the mother first begin.
Who loses honor can lose nothing else.
When you've heard it you must see it; when you've seen it make a judgement with your heart.
Every day is not Sunday.
One enemy can harm you more than a hundred friends can do you good.
Frost on the mutt, water on the bed.
When men are rightly occupied their happiness grows of their work.
Never pay more for an acquisition than you have to.
A bath refreshes the body, tea refreshes the mind.
Two dogs fight for a bone and a third runs away with it.
Good wine ruins the purse, and bad the stomach.
Who can not be trusted in small things can not be trusted in big things.
Take off your hat to your yesterdays; take off your coat for your tomorrows.
God sells knowledge for labour, honour for risk.
With selling and buying there are neither friends nor cronies.
It is not every flower that smells sweet.
Law is a flag and gold is the wind that makes it wave.
The ox saying ‘horned' to the donkey.
The rest of the world does not know what newlyweds know.
Men make wealth, and women preserve it.
If you want to eat pipius claw, you'll have to break a few pipiuses.
Why have a dog and bark yourself?
The olive grove of your grandfather, the cherry trees of your father, and your grape vines.
Don't bite till you know whether it is bread or a stone.
Do not look at the coat, but at what is under the coat.
He that at twenty is not, at thirty knows not, and at forty has not, will never be, nor ever know, nor ever have.
Kings learn wisdom from associating with wise men.
There is a time for everything.
The educated man precedes the farmer. But when the rice begins to run short, it's the farmer who comes first.
Better to be watched by a wild animal than a nosey man.
One must talk little, and listen a lot.
The appetite grows while one eats;.
A youth that does not cultivate friendship with the elderly is like a tree without roots.
Don't waste too many stones on one bird.
All the armament of Sicily won't arm fear.
One person's candle furnishes light for many.
A hatchet in the mouth is more harmful than a hatchet in the hand.
The poor man's budget is full of schemes.
The best of mankind is a farmer the best food is fruit.
Believe what you see and not all you hear.
Somalis don't say a false proverb.
Money is sharper than a sword.
Don't count the teeth of a gift horse.
When bredin split, enemies enter the gap.
The flea troubles him who has got it in his ear.
He who marries on a rainy day will be happy for the rest of his life.
If greedy wait, hot will cool.
When the calf is stolen, the peasant mends the stall.
It is a sign of weakness just to let things happen.
The person who brings a story to you will take away two from you.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of learning.
Even flies have ears.
Whenever man goes dwell his character goes with him.
To eat from the same pot with another man, is to take an oath of perpetual friendship with him.
No one can bind himself to perform the impossible.
An old man is a bed full of bones.
Even the gods are conciliated by offerings.
The thief's wife does not always laugh.
What you are is God's gift to you what you do with yourself is your gift to God.
Sooner will a beetle make honey.
He is well known as bad money.
He's like the rulers of la Rocca: a lot of smoke and no meat.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue.
My donkey is dead; let no more grass grow.
You can't unscramble scrambled eggs.
You can't drive straight on a twisting lane.
You only need good jaws to blame.
Impatience with your brother is in the flesh, it doesn't reach the bone.
The favour of the great is not lasting.
It is a sorry flock where the ewe bears the bell.
He that keeps out of harm's way will gather goodly riches.
Soon learn, soon forgotten.
Cap in hand never did any harm.
Anyone can make a spoon, but not everyone can make the handle.
An intelligent monkey can still be beaten.
A horse may stumble that has four legs.
The thief is frightened even by a mouse.
There is no elephant that complains about the weight of its trunk. No elephant is burdened by the weight of its tusks.
A society grows great when old men plant trees in whose shade they know they shall never sit.
Не knows how many beans make five.
It is good to have some friends both in heaven and in hell.
A greedy mill grinds all kinds of corn.
He who peeps through a hole may see what will vex him.
тяжелое проклятие A light purse is a heavy curse.
It is a good wind that blows a man to the wine.
That is beggar's fare, said the dame, when she fried eggs with the sausages.
I was not born when my mother was gone to the market.
In old age your strength decreases and your appetite increases.
Eating sets the head to rights.
Money is sweet balm.
A smooth talker is a good-for-nothing person.
When you see a snake, never mind where he came from.
His eyes are beautiful, but his heart is a devil.
When one foot stumbles, the other is near falling.
He knows it as well as his Lord's Prayer.
Do not let the cat watch over the bacon.
Do good, reap good; do evil, reap evil.
Sadness is a valuable treasure -- only discovered in people you love.
Do not eat before you have fed your animal.
Leave the hot fire and help the woman in labor.
The devil dances in an empty pocket.
If you share your friend's crime you make it your own.
Glory is the shadow of virtue.
If you wish a thing done, go; if not, send.
If you know a lot, know enough to make them respect you, if you are stupid, be stupid enough so they can pity you.
The weapon first, fighting second.
If each one sweeps before his own door, the whole street is clean.
He is a fool whose sheep runs away twice.
The worst pig often gets the best pear.
Tie up the hen that eats at your place and lays eggs elsewhere.
There is always one bull of the kraal.
There are two kinds of Chinese: those who give wine and those who drink it.
The only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping stones is the way you use them.
He who has once burnt his mouth always blows his soup.
There will be no cream from that spoiled milk.
You cannot cook two meals in the same pot.
See that in avoiding cinders you step not on burning coals.
Grain by grain, a loaf; stone by stone, a castle.
Gout is the sickness of the rich.
Although the number of unhappy days is endless, yet life is better than death.
Hooting all right and sleeping all day, doesn't make an owl wise.
Serve a lord and you'll know what is grief.
Truth and honesty keep the crown o' the causey.
You don't learn anything from buying, but you do from selling.
Courage is illusion, balance is the best we can get.
The tongue is the worst piece of meat in the world.
When the steed is stolen, you shut the stable door.
Gossipers always suspect that others are talking about them.
Perseverance can reduce an iron rod to a sewing needle.
Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.
If you don't make mistakes you don't make anything.
A lie has no author, nor a liar a conscience.
It is a bad action that success cannot justify.
To put taghi's hat on naghi's head.
He argues in vain who argues without means.
If I tell you my dream, you might forget it. If I act on my dream, perhaps you will remember it, but if I involve you, it becomes your dream too.
A poor man who takes a rich wife has a ruler, not a wife.
The brave have all the luck.
Good horses can't be of a bad color.
Business before pleasure.
When God gives a child, he also gives the clothing.
He has seen the wolf.
Pray to God, but keep on rowing to the shore.
Unless you know the road you've come down, you won't know where you are going.
Distrust and caution are the parents of security.
The crow flew over the sea but returned still a crow.
All feet tread not in one shoe.
Gather flowers while the morning sun lasts.
He considers it as straw of, the landowner Csaky.
Pain mingles with pleasure.
A miser and a liar bargain quickly.
The ram that is shown around is not fat.
Laws without penalties are like bells without clappers.
The girl with stars in her eyes will shine like the moonlight.
The hand that tied the lion knows best how to untie it.
Every shoe fits not every foot.
Come for your inheritance and you may have to pay for the funeral.
That which does not kill you, makes you stronger.
A beard once washed is half shaven.
Gather your rosebuds while you may.
There are three things that attract: a house for its inhabitants, a woman for her spouse, and a bargain for a customer.
Always to court and never to wed is the happiest life that ever was led.
Never bolt your door with a boiled carrot.
Whosoever draws his sword against the prince must throw the scabbard away.
It's a poor mouse that sits on the sack and doesn't gnaw.
Common sense is very uncommon with a lot of people.
In union is strength.
As the tree, so the fruit; as the mistress, so the maid.
There are always more fish in the pond.
The fool is thirsty in the midst of a downpour.
Look not at thieves eating meat, but look at them suffering punishment.
Alligator shouldn' call hog long mout.
What good is a something big that is still needed to be searched, if there is something small that is in your hands?
Flies enter an open mouth.
Every madman thinks all other men mad.
To do one's duty is to eat the prized fruit of honor.
Cobbler, stick to your last.
That sort of head needs that sort of razor.
Clear out of the ‘thakirio'.
Love entered and you didn't realize it: you wanted to drive it out but you couldn't.
According to the arm be the bleeding.
He who hunts two hares from one bush, is not likely to catch either.
Good company makes short miles.
What is learned in the cradle lasts to the grave.
Every man who can blow a horn is not a huntsman.
Poverty makes a man mean.
When one goose drinks, all drink.
The farmer feeds them all.
East or West, home is best.
Take the custom where you come.
The fox that waits until the chicken falls from the perch dies from hunger.
A prudent man will read the letter from back to front.
Marriage would be beautiful if it weren't for cradle rocking.
Twa Daughters, and a back-door, are three stark thieves.
Nothing to be got without pains but poverty.
Better a snotty child than his nose wiped off.
A dog returns to where he has been fed.
In a house where two daughters live, the cat dies of thirst.
From beavers, bees should learn to mend their ways. A bee works; a beaver works and plays.
A hardworking man is better than a crowd of loafers.
After a trial one party is naked and the other without a shirt.
The same rain that drenches the slave also drenches the slave driver.
A doubtful bargain spoils the stomach.
He who burns his posteriors must sit on blisters.
A fly that lands on a carabao feels itself to be higher than the carabao.
Reputation is commonly measured by the acre.
Mallow will cure you.
He that nothing questions, nothing learns.
Whoever I love is the most beautiful.
I cow dod did know how him troat hole ton him wouldn't chance pear seed.
Drinks down your sorrow, but your sorrow returns the morning after.
Dead horses can't kick.
If you want to see what your body will look like tomorrow, look at your thoughts today.
Act quickly, think slowly.
To the trustworthy man belongs a divine voice. The barge on the river and the chariot on the road come to him.
The ass does not know the value of his tail till he has lost it.
Think twice before you speak to a friend in need.
Hair does not grow faster by being pulled.
A mind can make a heaven out of hell, or a hell out of heaven.
A rain in May is golden.
You can't spread a net to catch a bird that is watching you.
The bull must be taken by the horns.
The grass may be greener on the other side, but it is just as difficult to cut.
When the door is closed, you must learn to slide across the crack of the sill.
Words and feathers the wind carries away.
Variety is the soul of pleasure. (Aphra Behn)
After rain, fine weather.
Every heart has its own ache.
A horse may take the warrior to the battlefield but can never fight.
The wise man has long ears and a short tongue.
He who requires what is under the bed must bend for it.
I am scratching myself where I am itching.
Who rides first, controls the speed.
If you spit in the face of a coward he'll tell you that it's raining.
Don't shut the barn door after the horse is stolen.
The shirt is nearer to the body than the coat.
Hasty speed is rarely good.
Always put your best foot forward.
Men are like bagpipes: no sound comes from them till they're full.
Lent, which seems so long, is short at other men's tables.
He wad gang a mile to flit a sow.
Fools and stubborn people make rich lawyers.
Learn weeping, and you shall gain laughing.
One arrow does not bring down two birds.
Alike children play the best.
The bull should be taken by the horns, a man at his word.
Who has love in his heart has spurs in his sides.
First build your house and then accommodate the furniture.
If your part of the battlefield is covered with thorns, you do not leave your position and go to stand where the ground is good.
Where there is no order, everything is headed toward collapse.
If the main timbers in the house are not straight, the smaller timber will be unsafe; and if the smaller timbers are not straight, the house will fall.
A house divided cannot stand.
The day will come for the despot to pay.
No family has no ugly member.
Opinion comes before the bravery of the braves.
Fences mean nothing to those who can fly.
Don't help the elephant to carry his tusks.
A fool may meet with good fortune, but the wise only profits by it.
Flies plough the ox' horns.
Bring up a raven and he will peck out your eyes.
Poor or rich, death makes us all equal.
Siberia will teach.
One misfortune brings on another.
A single beam cannot support a great house.
He who goes slowly goes safely and goes far.
Buy or die.
Wonders will never cease.
One white foot, buy him; two white feet, try him; three white feet, look well about him; four white feet, go without him.
Add up your pennies, and buy a hen.
Life is a dogma and a fight for the dogma.
Commit a sin twice and it will not seem a crime.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth.
A gift long expected is sold, not given.
A fallen lighthouse is more dangerous than a reef.
Don't scald your lips on another's soup.
All clever men are birds of prey.
Leave her now and then if you would really love your wife.
Tears come more often from the eyes than from the heart.
Good health and good sense are two great blessings.
A centipede is not crippled by the loss of one limb.
Confidence begets confidence.
A day of reading is a day of gain; a day without reading is ten days of loss.
Every advantage has its disadvantage.
The lazy person has no work and has no time.
It's no delay to stop to edge the tool.
Where there is butter there are flies.
Three times measure, one time cut.
Life is the greatest bargain – we get it for nothing.
The magpie wants too much, but her tail is unable to carry it.
Small pots have big ears/handles.
Throw out a sprat to catch a mackerel.
Bad luck for one man is good luck for another.
The person that makes one basket can make a hundred.
The country where flowers are expensive lacks the foundation of culture.
God gives the milk, but not the pail.
The spirit that keeps one going when one has no choice of what else to do must not be mistaken for valor.
A lazy chick that exposes itself will be a delicious meal for the eagle.
A service done to the unwilling is no service.
A jug carries water until its handle breaks off.
Even a hare will insult a dead lion.
The unknown is ever imagined.
Speak not of what you have read, but about what you have understood.
Constant dropping wears away a stone.
When the task accomplished, feel free to take a walk.
Is now the right time to bring hay, when the cow is already dead?
Who leaves the boat on water is miserable.
The tod keeps aye his ain hole clean.
A man must eat, though every tree were a gallows.
I never ask God to give me anything; I only ask him to put me where things are.
You can bear with your own faults, and why not a fault in your wife?
A man without happiness is either not good or not well.
Half an egg is better than an empty shell.
The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry.
An empty barrel sings in the wind.
Who goes a borrowing, goes a sorrowing.
You cannot stop birds from flying over your head, but you can stop them nesting in your hair.
Of what good is giving birth when later there regrets of disrespect.
If you love the boll, you cannot hate branches.
A soft answer turns away anger.
The well-filled belly has little understanding of the empty.
Apply fitting ability in the fitting place.
Many people together lift up the ‘ndiri'.
A good character is real beauty that never fades.
When the shepherd strays, the sheep stray.
Keep your breath to cool your crowdie.
When they gave the donkey flowers to smell, he ate them.
He moistens the lips, but leaves the palate dry.
People are like chameleons; circumstances make them change their colour.
Not even the priest will speak, preach twice.
As hungry as a wolf.
Mistrust is the mother of certainty.
The road to hell is strewn with roses.
Too much is not enough.
Good things come in small packages.
What you give for the cause of charity in health is gold; what you give in sickness is silver; what you give after death is lead.
If the moon is with you, you need not care about the stars.
Let rats shoot arrows at each other.
God takes care of a blind cow.
It is needless to pour water on a drown'd mouse.
Plant rice when the ground is ready; pursue women when you feel passion.
A palm wine taper does not stop tapping palm wine because he once fell from the top of a palm wine tree.
From the withered tree, a flower blooms.
A crow does not lay dove's eggs.
It's not the fault of one, that two are fighting.
Every dog is a tiger in his own street.
At a distance enjoy the fragrance of flowers.
Good listening does not mean sitting dumb.
If the icy snow carries you at midsummer, then we can expect a late spring.
Chairity begins at hame, but shouldna end there.
Trouble is the beginning of disaster.
To one who knows no better, a small garden is a forest.
There are two kinds of perfect people: those who are dead, and those who have not been born yet.
Brave men lived before Agamemnon.
Don't ask questions about fairy tales.
Desire is nourished by delay.
A hungry calf cannot frisk happily over another with a full stomach.
An elder uses old eyes to see and so the young use young eyes.
From the straws in the air we judge of the wind.
Like neither a donkey nor a horse.
Haste is the mother of inaccuracy.
If you wish to drown, do not torture yourself with shallow water.
Better to wash an old kimono than borrow a new one.
He who has a true friend, has no need of a mirror.
Whatever way you take there is a league of bad road.
He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind.
The lame tongue gets nothing.
When you show the moon to a child, it sees only your finger.
When you will, they wont, when you wont, they will.
You can't blow against the wind.
Even if the elephant is thin he is still the lord of the jungle.
Distance tests a horse's strength; time reveals a marls character.
Better a calamity to be far away.
Do not halloo till you are out of the wood.
The poor sleep soundly.
Biting and scratching is Scots folk's wooing.
He who steals the minaret shall find a case to hide it.
Leaves enough, but few grapes.
No hill without gravestones, no valley without shadows.
If two doctors visit a sick man, the sexton rings the bells.
A fool may throw into a well a stone which a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
Donated vinegar is sweeter than honey.
He who does not wish for little things does not deserve big things.
It is good to be visiting, but it is better at home.
You will use in the old what you have learned young.
Submit to the rule you have yourself laid down.
The Jew ruins himself with passovers, the Moor with wedding feasts, and the Christian with lawsuits.
If men could see the epitaphs their friends write they would believe they had gotten into the wrong grave.
Be old betimes, if you wish your old age to last.
A spoiled son becomes a gambler, while a spoiled daughter becomes a harlot.
May God save me from the one I saved.
What does the tortoise care for flies?
He who takes a light to find a snake should start at his own feet.
The mare's kicks are caresses to the colt.
When the roots of a tree begin to decay, it spreads death to the branches.
They wrangle about an egg, and let the hens fly away.
The adult looks to deeds, the child to love.
Only a fool will use both his legs to test how deep a spring is.
He hath need of his wits who wanders wide.
The anvil is used to noise.
Deep down all men are alike -- and that is the problem.
You will learn by teaching.
It's good to be poor, the head aches not too often and the stomach ain't too full.
Rise early, and you will observe; labor and you will have.
It is good baking besides meal.
What's all the world to a man when his wife is a widow.
A diamond with a flaw is preferable to a common stone with none.
The hunter that speaks too much, goes home empty handed.
Company drags a man to the scaffold.
Each bird loves to hear himself sing.
A golden handshake convinces even the most skeptical judge.
The magpie cannot leave her hopping.
A woman's advice is of little value, but he who does not take it is a fool.
It is easy to fool the young wolf.
They have most bread who have least teeth.
Never give cherries to pigs or advice to fools.
To learn about other people is science, to learn to know yourself is intelligence.
Loyalty is more valuable than diamonds.
It is better to lose the saddle than the horse.
Giving advice to the ignorant is like the rain falling on muddy ground.
Many pupils have gained more wealth than their masters.
Maidens say no, and mean yes.
If you love me, John, your acts will tell me so.
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
The war is lost for too much advice.
Noh cup noh brok, noh coffee noh trow weh.
Criticism is easy but it does not create.
It is loving too much to die of love.
A good cock was never fat.
A word spoken is past recalling.
There's no substitute for experience.
Nor pot to piss in.
If you run too fast you bypass a safe place you would have hidden yourself.
Incense intoxicates and every one wishes for it.
God stays long, but strikes at last.
Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no lies.
This cub is from that lion.
If you are in the house of a friend, bad times are soon forgotten.
My inclination first leads me in one direction, then in the opposite.
A scalded cat fears cold water.
If rich people could hire other people to die for them, the poor could make a wonderful living.
No one falls low unless he attempt to climb high.
The rat which has but one hole is soon caught.
Gold bears more gold.
Don't rush in the rapids, is the rule of old Lapland.
There's no life so tiring as one of doing nothing.
In the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed are kings.
It is in our work that we discover love and faith.
Complain about the house where the husband is the wife.
There is a remedy for all things save death.
Misterfull folk must not be mensfull.
He that hath an ill name is half hanged.
He who has everything is content with nothing.
He who has patience with his enemy, rewards himself.
Experience is the father of wisdom and memory the mother.
If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked.
The first at the mill can grind the first.
Living in worry invites death in a hurry.
I won't tie up the mule in a horse's place, says the widow.
He who has only one enemy, meets him everywhere.
Never give the skin when you can pay with the wool.
He that would cheat a Jew, must be a Jew.
A person looks only on the outside of things; God looks into the very heart.
If the first goat goes lame, those that follow will not reach the pasture.
One's best fortune, or, their worst is their spouse.
Second thoughts are the best.
A coral reef strengthens into land.
Where vice goes before, vengeance follows after.
The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught.
You pays your money and you takes your choice.
Willing is a good man, but Able is a better one.
Every beauty has some fault and every plain jane some grace.
Don't snap your fingers at the dogs before you are out of the village.
Physicians rarely take medicine.
The wolf changes his coat, but not his disposition.
If the mule isn't kicking, it's biting.
Lazy people always want to do everything at the same time.
Your thrift's as gude as the profit o' a yeld hen.
A sensible enemy is better than a narrow-minded friend.
With someone holding nothing but trumps it is impossible to play cards.
He who has a back is not beaten on the belly.
These youth taught their mother to give birth.
As to the juror or the witness, bribe both.
Every one to his equal.
Small choice in rotten apples.
The tongue of woman is her sword, which never rusts.
He who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
No matter how tall your grandfather was, you have to do your own growing.
Opportunity only knocks once: Grab it or you'll lose it.
On the tongue [there's] honey, and on the heart [there's] ice.
When wrathful words arise a closed mouth is soothing.
The law grows of sin, and chastises it.
Beauty and folly are often companions.
When the cat's away the rats will play.
To be totally at leisure for one day is to be immortal for one day.
There is no tune without a penny.
The dog that quits barking can get some sleep.
It is better to be in hell with a wise man than in heaven with a fool.
A clever pig extracts a deep root.
The body is killed by the mouth.
Meat is good, but Mense is better.
It is not the nodding of heads that does the rowing.
Hard work is the right hand of fate.
Fish or cut bait.
Provide for the worst, the best will save itself.
Republicans will do anything for the poor except get off their backs.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant.
You cannot shear the sheep closer than the skin.
There are some who see ill, and would like to see worse.
Justice, but not in my own house.
He hauls at a long rope who expects another's death.
Every man is occasionally what he ought to be perpetually.
A fool's bolt is soon shot.
The purest people are the ones with good manners.
Better bread in the basket than a feather in your cap.
It is the still and silent sea that drowns a man.
First improve yourself, and then judge others.
The nearest boor is the nearest kinsman when the calf lies in the ditch.
Those who know how to swim are the ones who sink.
Don't maintain a friendship with cops because you'll lose your wine and your cigars.
It is the cloth of an orphan that is often given to the guest.
Cover your head, and not cover your bottom.
When the water's high, the boat's high.
An old ensign is a captain's honour.
Flying from the bull he fell into the river.
You needn't be afraid of a barking dog, but you should be afraid of a silent dog.
If one, two and three say you are an ass, put on the ears.
Where there is sea there will always be pirates.
Plans fail for lack of counsel but with many advisors, succeed.
There is no need to whip docile horses.
Is the white camel made of fat?
August rain brings oil, honey and must.
When a rich man falls they say it was an accident; when a poor man falls they say that he was drunk.
Poverty never sped well in love.
He takes out a nail and puts in a pin.
Don't undermine my silence, its got reason; don't rate it, it as got no scale.
The force of anger is broken by a soft answer.
Take care of your dress from when it's new and your honor from your youth.
If the mother had never been in the oven, she would not have looked for her daughter there.
A friend is best found in adversity.
From a limb that started sinning, all the troubles began.
When you play with a lion, do not put your hand in its mouth.
A woman prefers a man without money to money without a man.
Every one is wise for his own profit.
What is not taken by the Church is taken by the Exchequer.
May your clothes rip and wear out, but may you live on in good health and fulfillment.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it comes home broken at last.
When the master is away, the frogs hop in.
When a fox walks lame, the old rabbit jumps.
When you are on the road speak not ill of your enemy.
Truth will not make you fat but you won't choke on a lie.
A sly rogue is often in good dress.
Imiation is the highest form of flattery.
Intelligence is a fruit picked in the neighbour's garden.
Even the saints' patience has its limits.
All flute-players are mad; when once they begin to blow, away goes reason.
A little body often harbours a great soul.
Men go not laughing to heaven.
You can't make cheesecakes out of snow.
Little pigs have big ears.
The Church never gives anything away.
No one is worse, for knowing the worst of themselves.
A feeble effort will not fulfill the self.
A lion cannot hear its own roar.
The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth.
Some who will not speak against another, in the end does them harm.
An Englishman's house (home) is his castle.
A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows the corners.
If you wish to know what most occupies a man's thoughts, you have only to listen to his conversation.
Better to kiss an ugly woman than to lick yourself.
The lizard that lives high up in iroko tree does not hear the lions roar.
Matrimony is the grave of romance.
Love, a cough, and smoke, are hard to hide.
Don't move an ancient boundary stone or encroach on the fields of the fatherless.
A dog with two homes is never any good.
Mend the pen only after the sheep are all gone.
You can always find good elements in the misfortune that strikes you.
One cannot change nature.
I kill the boars, but another eats the flesh.
The tortoise is friends with the snail: those with shells keep their shells close together.
Friendship is one thing and tobacco is another.
If you help the evil, you hurt the good.
Many small streams make a large river.
It is the fate of the coconut husk to float, for the stone to sink.
Wisdom is attained by learning when to hold one's tongue.
In small boxes the best spice.
It is the snake that smells the rat.
A bountiful pear harvest means shortages of everything else.
A wise fox will never rob his neighbour's hen roost.
The fool castrates himself in order that he could accuse his pregnant wife of adultery.
Spanish is the language of lovers, Italian is for the singer, French for diplomats, and German for horses.
While the word is yet unspoken, you are master of it; when once it is spoken, it is master of you.
Good fortune is loaned, not owned.
Who cares if a crow is male or female?
A cur's tail grows fast.
Four things come not back: the spoken word, the spent arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
Who does not work will not get food.
Men must sew up tears with gentleness.
A stitch in due time saves nine.
The miller sees not every wave that flows.
When death comes, the rich man has no money and the poor man no debt.
The country is in ruins, and there are still mountains and rivers.
New songs are eagerly sung.
Without the companionship even paradise would be boring.
Clear conscience never fears midnight knocking.
If opportunity doesn't knock build a door.
Asking costs little.
It is a cob stripped of maize in an ashpit.
The body pays for a slip of the foot and gold pays for a slip of the tongue.
Jack gets on by his stupidity.
"like will to like,” as the devil said to the coal-burner.
One kind word can warm winter months.
Don't make a mouse of yourself, or else you will be eaten by cats.
To open a business is very easy; to keep it open is very difficult.
With the intellect of another you won't get very far.
He who avoids the temptations avoids the sin.
Fill your basket one item at a time.
Good wine makes good blood.
A thorn pierces young skin more quickly than old.
The stick bends but does not break.
The mind is best taught with a sharp whip.
When the lamps in the house are lit it is like the flowering of lotus on the lake.
The air of the land of israel makes one wise.
A doctor is only a doctor when he has killed one or two patients.
Long cry after joy.
Gulls on earth, storm in the sea.
The scythe has hit a stone.
Who does not punish evil, invites it.
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is often spilt.
If the hill is on fire the grasshoppers are roasted.
Weak men wait for opportunities, strong men make them.
The deeper the waters are, the more still they run.
Where there is honey, there are bound to be ants.
He fell to the other side of the horse.
Hope for the best and prepare for the worst.
No diadem can cure a headache.
There are such things as false truths and honest lies.
He who strives to do, does more than he who has the power.
The cat and the mouse can't be neighbors for long..
Those who tickle themselves may laugh when they please.
He that mocks a cripple, ought to be whole.
Don't say amen to an unacceptable prayer.
Many friends, few helpers.
Necessity knows no laws.
Children and fools are prophets.
A man must plough with such oxen as he hath.
An old woman is not old in a song she dances well.
Wuh ever in de ‘ole cow in de kiddle.
An adder with its poisonous fangs taken out is nothing more than a piece of rope.
The water runs while the miller sleeps.
Who wants to judge needs to listen to the parties.
A clean mouth and honest hand, will take a man through any land.
A dry bone is never licked.
Dogs understand each other by their barking, and men by their words.
Too much humility is pride.
You cannot drink and whistle at the same time.
For the want of worthy men they made my father alcade.
He that is not sensible of his loss has lost nothing.
Honor buys no meat in the market. Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper.
Communicate more with yourself than you do with others.
A dry finger cannot pick up salt.
The foot pains in sympathy with the toe.
If you want half a bread, beg smaddy buy it, but if yu want a wan, buy it yuself.
When the bait is more than the fish, 'tis time to stop fishing.
He that winna thole maun flit mony a hole.
The public is an animal with many heads.
You can worship a sardine's head if you believe in it.
A ripened fruit does not cling to the vine.
Poverty is cunning; it catches even a fox.
Crows weep for the dead lamb then devour him.
If you walk on snow you cannot hide your footprints.
If you bow at all, bow low.
Envy does not enter an empty house.
If you understand the beginning well, the end will not trouble you.
Keeping a secret is a commitment.
Let every man mind his own business, and leave others to theirs.
Conceived by no father, conceived by no mother, the reed came out of the breast of the storm.
What costs nothing is worth nothing.
Advice, when most needed, is least heeded.
St. Swithin's Day, if thou dost rain, for forty days it will remain; St. Swithin's Day, if thou be fair, for forty days 'twill rain no more.
Nought needs no hiding-place.
From September to August drink the old wine and leave the must to age.
The young should be taught, the old should be honored.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
Who depends on another man's table often dines late.
Even the devil himself does not know where women sharpen their knives.
He is as welcome as the first day in Lent. (Alluding to fastday.)
A watched pot never boils.
Fear the person who doesn't fear God.
The monkey knows which branch to swing on.
Don't compromise your beliefs for money.
The water has passed his head.
Habit is worse than rabies.
He who grasps too much holds nothing fast.
Many drops of water make an ocean.
Two shorten the road.
For every glance behind us, we have to look twice to the future.
Rain does not fall on one roof alone.
Laugh before breakfast and you'll cry before lunch.
A donkey is but a donkey though laden with gold.
Put a stout heart to a steep hill.
Rage avails less than courage.
Who loves the tree loves the branch.
When the dog is awake, the shepherd may sleep.
Justice is better than admiration.
A merry heart goes all the way.
Example is better than law.
Bread and cheese, neither beneficial nor bad.
Grow old, body, the heart still remains.
When a child cries for a razor give it him.
Blow first, and sip afterwards.
Better to be known as a sinner than a hypocrite.
Without oars, you cannot cross in a boat.
A timely A timely "no" beats a hasty "yes."
A bold onset is half the battle.
Master your temper lest it masters you.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Dishing the dirt.
The greatest step is that out of doors.
When cat is absent, mice dance.
A river is made drop by drop.
Many do lack, that yet would fain have in their pack.
It is better to wear mended clothes than being without clothes or bare.
A danger foreseen is half-avoided.
No tree but has rotten wood enough to burn it.
To him that watches, everything is revealed.
The goat can't well cover herself with her tail.
We all envy other people's luck.
Do not throw the arrow which will return against you.
You can't find stupidity in the forest.
A short man carry a hunchback man.
Life is like a mirror if you fawn it, it fawns back and if you smile, it smiles.
Justice watches the eye like a bird.
The devil is in the details.
There is no beauty but the beauty of action.
Lip courtesy pleases much and costs little.
The spider that knows what it will gain sits waiting patiently in its web. The praying mantis is never tired waiting all day.
Things never go so well that someone should have no fear, nor so bad that someone should have no hope.
When a face is sullen it remains there to be seen on its owner.
Making money on manure is better than losing money on musk.
Young saint, old devil. (15th century)
It is nothing for one to know something unless another knows you know it.
The goodness of the father reaches higher than a mountain; that of the mother goes deeper than the ocean.
Good wine needs no signboard, bush.
Not to wish to recover is a mortal symptom.
Only a fool argues with the cook.
A bad habit that lasts more than a year may turn into a custom.
A christian forgives, an idiot forgets.
When they fooled the chicken they threw her into a carrying basket.
When adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?
An Irishman is never at his best except when fighting.
Friends have all things in common.
But an unwatched kettle over boils.
All power is impatient of a partner.
The patient eat ripe.
Where god builds a church, the devil will build a chapel.
Seek to get.
The devil goes away and heaven comes to stay.
Good, that comes too late, is good as nothing.
Where the hostess is beautiful the wine is tasty.
Where the heart is past hope, the face is past shame.
The weak who opposes the strong, is like the jug that collides with the wall.
From the black earth there grows the finest grain.
Only those are fit to live who are not afraid to die.
A blow with a reed makes a noise but hurts not.
When you are talking about marriage, think about your mother.
In measly pride, devil finds satisfaction.
A person who is in too much of a hurry stubs his toe.
There is no distinction among the common baskets made of palm branches.
Nowhere are there more hiding places than in the heart.
You cannot produce one human being without uniting two bodies.
A promise is a nice word, if kept then it is all right.
The burden one likes is cheerfully carried.
After I saw what my mother did, I will never trust a widow.
Open your mouth before you eat.
The growing millet does not fear the sun.
Virtue: climbing a hill; vice: running down.
Zeal without knowledge is like fire without light.
A lie has no legs, but scandalous wings.
A stitch in time saves nine.
Listen with one ear; be suspicious with the other.
Like the seaweed that clings to each other after each passing boat separates them, so too a family will come together with the passing of each crisis.
It is dear bought honey that is lickt off a thorn.
Hair, and hair, makes the Carles head bare.
Friendships are cheap when they can be brought by doffing the hat.
What three know, everybody knows.
After dinner, rest; after supper walk a mile.
He who abandons his family, God forsakes him.
Silence is music to a wise man.
The wise man never takes a step too long for his leg.
To kiss the child is to kiss the mother.
A good friend will fit you like ring to finger.
An open door may tempt a saint.
The more you stir filth the worse it stinks.
Between friends all is common.
Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground.
One who has control over his pants, hand and mouth has nothing to worry about.
Music helps not the toothache.
If you've seeded before a heavy rain, one out of one hundred of your plants will be out of line, but if you wait and seed later, one out of one hundred will take.
When bale is hext, boot is next.
Away with grieving, only fit for women.
Better April showers than the breadth of the ocean in gold.
An ass must be tied where the master will have him.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
Dreams are related to the past but connected to the future.
A seed hidden in the heart of an apple is an orchard invisible.
They wooed her and she resisted; they neglected her and she fell in love.
It is of no use making shoes for geese.
The worse the wheel, the more it creaks.
Conceit is the self satisfaction of a jackass.
We are all wanderers on this earth. Our hearts are full of wonder, and our souls are deep with dreams.
A child one does not instruct on return, one instructs him when going.
Burial is the way to honor the dead.
For crystal rain falls from black clouds.
Not to talk is to hate.
What the eye does not admire the heart does not desire.
Even the beggar envies the beggar.
It is as difficult to win love as it is to pack salt in pine needles.
Lickle bit a ram goat have beard an' big dull noh have nun.
High calling brings a high fall.
No matter how long a bird lives in a cage, it will always want to escape.
Trouble is here, so open the gates.
He that has a tongue in his head may find his way anywhere.
Patience is a tree whose root is bitter, but its fruit is very sweet.
Dogs bark and cows chew grass.
If you do good to the devil, out of gratitude he will deliver you to hell.
The liar is sooner caught than the cripple.
When you wake up in the morning you see the other person's butt.
The cow is given a present when her calf is carried away.
Be patient with a bad neighbor. Maybe he'll leave or a disaster will take him out.
Take counsel of your pillow.
The anvil fears no blows.
The heart does not lie.
After your daughter is married, there comes a number of potential sons-in-law.
Old Lady of Threadneedle Street.
The dragon has nine sons, each different from the others.
That which you do not need will kill you.
It is the crime that causes the shame, and not the punishment.
Always say no, and you will never be married.
From those I trust God guard me, from those I mistrust I will guard myself.
Crap or get off the pot.
A friend who fawns is better than an enemy who smiles.
Let your heart guide your head in evil matters.
Where there is no bridge the smallest plank is of great value.
A man was hanged for saying what was true.
Anger can't stand, without a strong hand.
If you're a shoveler, shovel your garden first.
Human thinks and God plans.
From the soldier who has no cloak, keep your own in your chest.
The world is a ladder, in which some go up and others go down.
If patience is sour then its result is sweet.
An Irishman is never drunk as long as he can hold onto one blade of grass and not fall off the face of the earth.
As long as there's life, there is hope.
O! my sister close thy door, and enough what happened to you.
It cannot be true religion if it loves money.
The crow says the ugliest runt is his own.
If things are getting easier, maybe you're headed downhill.
Both the cross and the gallows are made of wood.
Though the palm tree in the jungle is big, who knows how big its yield will be?
What you give you get, ten times over.
Two tigers cannot share one mountain (forest).
Too much discussion leads to a quarrel.
Only a race horse or a comyn lord is judged by his pedigree.
Give every man his due.
First for self, then for the stranger.
You cannot work for food when there is no food for work.
A fat kitchen is near to poverty.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Speedy rise, speedy fall.
A masquerade is not a spirit only because of its mask.
A beaten one is worth two unbeaten ones.
Words are like spears: once they leave your lips they can never come back.
When I married a malicious husband, when I bore a malicious son, an unhappy heart was assigned to me.
Whoever interferes between husband and wife is a big jackass.
There's no reason to walk on the branches when the trunk is so thick.
Summer is the season of inferior sledding.
A barking dog does not bite.
A good shepherd must fleece his sheep, not flay them.
Some will enjoy the honey, others will have to put up with the sting.
Good remains are nice to have.
The anvil is not afraid of the hammer.
My teeth before my relations.
Faith moves mountains.
To punish a student, use a shoe lace.
We hate those who will not take our advice and despise those who do.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
The best bed that a man can sleep on is peace.
A scared dog barks to pretend to its master but a brave dog bits to protect him.
It is better to be in chains with friends, than to be in a garden with strangers.
Never ask a favor of someone till they have had their dinner.
A great stone fell down from his heart.
It is eich to cry yule on another man's cost.
Be first at the feast, and last at the fight.
Do not try to cook the goat's young in the goat's milk.
At whatever age a child gets a problem, at the same age she has to shoulder the responsibility.
Better they should say, "There he ran away,” than "There he died.”.
It is ill to bring out of the flesh that is bred in the bene.
If there is no reason, why would the tempua bird nest on the low branches?
A poor man's debt makes a great noise.
An old friend is better than two new ones.
Better the cold blast of winter than the hot breath of a pursuing elephant.
The noisiest drum has nothing but air inside.
What good is a golden gallows if they are going to hang you.
Yakov's magpie started chattering the same thing about anyone.
To change one's mind is rather a sign of prudence than ignorance.
The greatness of man's male organ don't call it an hydro cell.
A cat with a straw tail keeps away from fire.
He who fails to plan, plans to fail.
With time an egg will walk.
Are you a Jeta, you do not move?.
From a praying young man, and a fasting old man, God preserve my cloak.
Not everything that shines is gold.
I would like to break off the flower, but the branch is too high.
When a hen is brooding, another hen cannot sit on her eggs.
If you are not an animal you will never find yourself in a trap.
First the stable, then the cow.
Thinking of his many problems;
Around and around, the moth dies in the candle flame.
Pull out the beak and the tail gets stuck, pull out the tail and the beak gets stuck.
A stranger dances – he does not sing.
The mistake of the scientist leads to mistakes by many people.
What gives the child the itch has already given him the fingernails for scratching it.
You are worth as much as your purse.
Unwillingness ends in groaning... Nem akarásnak nyögés a vége.
Who wants to eat snails, will have to get his feet wet.
When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down.
Cooked pumpkin stays hot for a long time.
All lay load on the willing horse.
He who is well prepared has won the battle.
He that stays in the valley will not get over the hill.
Don't run too far, you will have to return the same distance.
It's better to stand on your own feet than someone else's.
Go in God's name, for he takes a loaf of mine.
Physician heal thyself.
The belly does not accept bail.
A woman's beauty cannot warm a winter's night.
Custom makes all things easy.
Work is not a wolf, it's not going away to the forest.
The world is the traveller's inn.
A wife's advice is not worth much, but woe to the husband who refuses to take it.
It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese.
Every book must be chewed to get out its juice.
When you are thirsty, it is too late to think about digging a well.
The day you decide to do it is your lucky day.
When do we have a day of fast? When there is no bread and ham in the larder.
If you spit against the wind, you spit in your own face.
The fox that sleeps in the morning has not his tongue feathered.
If you want a thing done well, do it yourself.
It's never too late to mend.
The absent are always at fault.
One cannot manage too many affairs; like pumpkins in water, one pops up while you try to hold down the other.
The day of happiness is short.
A guest has not to thank the host, but the host the guest.
Friends are like fiddle strings, they must not be screwed too tight.
A nut is good if broken, a women if beaten.
Sleeping farmer gets a dreaming farmhand.
It takes more than one blow to fell a tree.
Better buy as borrow.
When the child falls the mother weeps; when the mother falls the child laughs.
It worked on paper, but [we've] forgotten about ravines (and we'll have to march [them]).
The cat which did not reach the sausage said: Anyhow it is Friday.
A man who is advised and he takes it, is still a man who acts from his own free will.
The avenging gods have their feet clothed in wool.
A golden bit makes none the better horse.
Many caress the child for the sake of the wet nurse.
A penny-weight of love is worth a pound of law.
Sing your death song and die like a hero going home.
There's more than one way to beat the devil around the bush.
Ain't over till the fat lady sings.
When the poor man sets a trap only his dog gets caught.
The best of hunters lies more than he hunts.
When mother cow is cropping grass, her young one watches her mouth.
A bull is not known in two herds.
Who glows not burns not.
Everything has two handles.
Promises make debt, and debt makes promises.
Unless you call out, who will open the door?
If you want to eat a monkey, don't look in its eyes.
Be careful what you wish for you might get it.
Where God sends babbies he sends penny loaves.
Hares are not caught by the sound of the drum.
He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes.
Faint heart ne'er won fair lady.
He who would cheat a peasant, must take one with him.
Who runs more, lacks walking.
No rose, but a flower after all.
No woman can make a wise man out of a fool, but every woman can change a wise man into a fool.
One finger can't lift a pebble.
May Inana pour oil on my heart that aches.
Little by little the mouse finishes the hide.
If you want your dreams to come true, don't over sleep.
Never fell oak at the very first stroke.
Peter is so godly that God does not improve his condition.
Compete, don't envy.
Don't put it in my ear, but in my hand.
Blame is the lazy man's wages.
You can use salt to prevent meat from rotting, but what will you use to prevent salt from rotting?
Put a rope around your neck and many will be happy to drag you along.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
You cannot buy wisdom abroad if there is none at home.
Faster than the wind.
The sow has been greeted with music.
A good dog deserves a good bone.
Care for your horse as a friend; ride it as if it were an enemy.
I'll go there tonight for evening is speedier than morning.
There are many who throw stones at a red apple.
The attacks of a wild beast cannot be averted with only bare hands.
You don't have to tell the deaf that there is a stampede in the market.
When we can't find peace in ourselves it is vain to look for it elsewhere.
To know a man well one must have eaten a bushel of salt with him.
Prayer knocks till the door opens.
Wenn de Appel rîp, is sau felt he .
He did not shoot the hare but the pot is already on the fire.
Eat the bread of the man you hate and also of him you love.
A fool is like the big drum that beats fast but does not realize its hollowness.
If you fail to plan, you plan to fail.
Even when a samurai has not eaten, he holds his toothpick high.
Let him who sins when drunk be punished when sober.
If a person's foresight were as good as their hindsight, we would all get somewhere.
your brother is that who consoles you.
You may go to Kukutyin to sharpen oats.
Each husband gets the infidelity he deserves.
The constitution is paper, bayonets are steel.
If we do what we always did we will always remain what we always we're.
When you open a door, don't forget to close it. Treat your mouth accordingly.
Beauty is only skin deep, ugliness goes to the bone.
The day does not return.
Wisdom is better than strength.
Among the weak, the strongest is the one who doesn't forget his weakness.
No ebery chain you hear a fe rollin'calf.
Man is the instrument of illness.
Know those who are faithful to you when you are in low estate.
The wolf dies where the pack is.
It's the little things in life that count.
No one roasts rotten meat and puts it in the mouth of their friend and then says ‘you mouth stinks.'
It is good to beat a proud man when he is alone.
Let your ears hear what your mouth says.
Every man's sin falls on his own head.
The greatest pleasure in life lies in doing that which people say we cannot do.
A man among children will long be a child; a child among men will soon be a man.
Absence is the enemy of love.
Having been bitten by a snake, he's afraid of a rope.
Whose bread I eat, his song I sing.
The better lawyer, the worse Christian.
In time of sickness the soul collects itself anew.
Better be sure than sorry.
Meikle spoken, part must spill.
no thro away dirty water befo' you hab clean.
Work like an ant and you'll eat sugar.
Nothing in excess.
He who would rest must work.
Make too much haste and pay the penalty.
If you travel for a day, take bread for a week.
Everyone is a prisoner of her/his past.
There is no rain which does not enrich someone.
Better educated than wealthy.
Rebukes ought not to have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
One should try to get enormously benefited by a small effort.
It's weel won that's aff the wame.
No war has been fought by men carrying a calabash of ‘njohi' but of ‘ucuru'.
Try this bracelet: if it fits you wear it; but if it hurts you, throw it away no matter how shiny.
Women in state affairs are like monkeys in glass-houses.
There is never wanting an excuse for drinking.
Get your ox from a young cow and your horse from an old mare.
He that hath a wife is sure of strife.
Give at first asking what you safely can; 'tis certain gain to help an honest man.
The tongue that belongs to a fake friend is sharper than a knife.
Listen to that which is well said even if it is from the mouth of an enemy.
Time never gets tired of running.
A grunting donkey is nothing to be ashamed of.
The idea came after the drunkness passed away.
Art improves nature.
Better be idle than ill doing.
One who causes others misfortune also teaches them wisdom.
Do not cut the bough you are sitting on.
You cannot hang a man for what he thinks.
A sailor must have his eye trained to the rocks and sands as well as the north star.
The pitcher goes so often to the well, that it leaves its handle or its mouth.
If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work.
Burning the poor man's candles, counting the rich man's money.
Migration is a sign of protect.
Roosters' tail feathers: pretty but always behind.
Quha may hold that will away?
He that would live in peace and rest, must hear, and see, and say the best.
Every one speaks of the feast as he finds it.
Lead by example.
Maidens should be meek till they be married.
One stroke on the nail and a hundred on the horseshoe.
The land is cultivated by its own oxen.
Law is like a shaft of a cart, it points wherever you turn it to.
Don't ask a dog to judge between a pillar and a tree.
A woman's heart and spring weather.
Your own wealth is flowers and wine; the other man's is but weeds.
You go to an ass for wool.
You're young if you're healthy, and rich if you have no debts.
Cease to do evil, learn to do well.
An enemy that is surprised is already half-defeated.
Better not to add salt than over salt.
One rotten beam can make a whole house collapse.
All men are fools, but all fools are not men.
Bread is the head of everything.
You reproach your daughter, but you mean your daughter-in-law.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.
To have a hut built from mud here is better than a palace made from gold and marble on the Arabian Gulf.
Love is blind but sees afar.
People are masters over people till arriving at the throne of God.
Sickly body, sickly mind.
Everybody knows best where his own shoe pinches.
The wife is twice precious only; when led into the house, and when taken out.
He gets his wisdom cheaply who gets it at another's cost.
Stable the steed, and put your wife to bed when there's night wark to do.
If you chase away an ant, all the ants will come and bite you.
A duck won't bite you.
Children are poor men's riches.
The dog's bark is not might, but fright.
A face without freckles is like a sky without stars.
Even black hens lay white eggs.
A fever in autumn is either long lasting or mortal.
When a person regrets endlessly, he gets to pay more for what he regrets.
The cow that's first up gets the first of the dew.
What go looking for, will find.
Every guest hates the others, and the host hates them all.
The stolen ox sometimes puts his head out of the stall.
There is nothing more precious than time.
Never ask a barber if you need a haircut.
To dead men and absent there are no friends left.
A raised salary has been earned by service.
Leave well alone! You wont improve matters by going on tinkering.
It is not fish until it is on the bank.
Truth is God's daughter.
The fool speaks, the wise man listens.
Appearance can be deceiving. A wolf can disguise himself as a sheep.
The harder you fall, the higher you bounce.
Not every truth is good to be told.
If he waits long enough the world will be his own.
When a goose dances, and a fool versifies, there is sport.
They are not all hunters who blow horns.
Fine linen often conceals scabby skin.
If you have a poor father that is destiny; if you have a poor father-in-law, that is your mistake.
He who hurts his nose, hurts his face.
On the hook of truth only small carp will bite; in the net of falsehood the big salmon are caught.
You can't get blood out of a stone.
A barking dog was never a good hunter.
He who laughs at others' woes finds few friends and many foes.
The laughter of a child is the light of a house.
The wind that carried the mortar will not fail to carry the pestle.
Better a bad wife than an empty house.
What you save is, later, like something found.
Don't put all eggs in one basket.
The wish is father to the thought.
The blind man would like to show the way to others.
Hares are caught with hounds, fools with praise, and women with gold.
A good advice is part of the Religion..
One cannot both feast and become rich.
Victims of the same disease have a lot to talk about.
As the old ones sing, the young ones twitter.
Calumniate strongly and some of it will stick.
Everyone admires his own character.
If the cap fits wear it.
After a thrifty father, a prodigal son.
Coupled sheep drown one another.
There is no occasion for priests to marry, while peasants have wives.
The lotus flower blooms in the mud.
Sooner could you hide an elephant under your armpit.
Cockroach nuh business inna fowl fight.
Courage is not the same as fighting someone stronger than you.
It is short while seen the louse boore the langelt.
Up one side and down the other.
Apelles was not a master painter the first day.
You should not judge a dog by its fur.
It makes chicken laugh.
He who undertakes too many jobs does none.
Hackney mistress, Hackney maid.
The unmarried don't know about labor pains.
Who has never tasted what is bitter does not know what is sweet.
Try to deserve the reputation you enjoy.
You cannot make a silk purse from a sow's ear.
The wagtail hops and flaps its wings, but the male dove feeds and coos.
The lame man runs if he has to.
Eggs and iron must not be in the same bag.
Not even a drop is left.
Beware: some liars tell the truth.
A merry host makes merry guests.
A just man falls seven times, and rises up again.
Keep a stiff upper lip.
You must be willing to die in order to live.
Even the best blade will rust and grow dull unless it is cared for.
When in need, you shall know a friend.
You can keep away from the rogue, but you cannot keep yourself safe from the liar.
Ye ca' hardest at the nail that drives fastest.
A year of snow, bodes a good year for olives.
Being clean is the half of faith.
We are all flesh and blood of the earth and so will return to the ground as rotten maggot encrusted relics.
Arrogance is intolerable.
Set a beggar on a horse and he'll ride to the devil.
Who buys hath need of eyes.
It is na play where ane greits, and another laughs.
Teachers die, but books live on.
Problems are in the bag.
One year ages the old, two years grow a child.
Good words cost nought.
Need is not governed by the law.
My neighbour's goat gives more milk than mine.
What! give the lettuce in charge to the geese!
Sometimes you get the bear and sometimes the bear gets you.
A problem is solved when it gets tougher.
Pound the garlic, Pedro, whilst I grate the cheese.
The doctor demands his fees whether he has killed the illness or the patient.
He who is not drunk on a sunday is not worth a greeting on monday.
He has discovered the sealing wax.
The richest man, whate'er his lot, is the one content with what he's got.
From Spain can come neither good winds nor good marriages.
The gown does not make the friar.
Sometimes the body becomes healthy by being very sick.
A man without a woman is only half a man.
He suffocates me with kindness.
When riding on top of an elephant do not assume there is no dew in the thicket.
Cold pudding settles love.
The cheapest way to improve your looks is to wear a smile.
Fortune and misfortune live in the same courtyard.
Don't cross the bridge till you come to it.
The beast that goes well never wants a rider to try its paces.
The more stupid the child the dearer it is.
First impressions are most lasting.
A tree starts with a seed.
Medicine that heals is not always sweet and caring words are not always pleasant.
Patience! said the wolf to the ass.
Who approaches women penniless will be told: get lost.
Who is reared at home fares wrong away from home.
Hens feet don't spoil the chick.
Old debts are not paid, and new ones are left to get old.
A warrior fights to the death.
When ill-luck sleeps, let no one wake her.
Bald people can always find a comb.
It's a fine sermon about fasting when the preacher just had lunch.
He who got out of his home lessened his value.
Divorce a young woman and you make another man happy.
What first appears as a calamity may later bring good fortune.
Every cackling hen was an egg at first.
A good name covers theft.
God gives to us according to the measure of our hearts.
Where is there a tree not shaken by the wind?
An empty barn needs no roof.
Eat in a house then excrete on the roof.
You may say the cassava in your mouth is bitter, but it is only looking at the next one.
The lake is not encumbered by the swan, and the body is not encumbered by good sense.
Don't take your harp to the party.
Practice with the left hand while the right is still there.
If you are planning for one year, grow rice. If you are planning for 20 years grow trees. If you are planning for centuries, grow men.
The bad neighbour gives a needle without thread.
The straight road is the best.
All women may be won.
Tell your own story first.
At night all cats are brown.
It is better to be born a beggar than a fool.
To err is human, to persist in it, beastly.
The best morsels are never given to a beggar.
Without a cat, mice feel free.
The busy man has few idle visitors: to the boiling pot the flies come not.
The chameleon looks in all directions before moving.
Not everyone who sings a lullaby stays awake.
The raised hand cares not for its own recognition, but for that of the body below.
If you want a better tomorrow do good today.
When my child and I have eaten -- then clear the table.
Hard against hard never was good.
He who is his own teacher has a fool for his pupil.
It is hard to catch hares with unwilling hounds.
While avoiding the smoke I have fallen into the flame.
One should do more by wisdom than by force.
Those who master to climb trees with their teeth are in better position to tell which barks are bitter.
A person's reputation is like his shadow-sometimes it follows and sometimes it precedes him; and sometimes it is smaller and sometimes it is bigger than he is.
When the door is low one must stoop.
A man cannot eat his cake and haue it stil: / That may he, vnlesse his retention be ill.
Tap even a stone bridge before crossing.
It doesn't taste much like pine or aspen.
What butter and whiskey will not cure there's no cure for.
A dry January means a filled hayloft.
Vanity blossoms but bears no fruit.
There is aye life for a living man.
Rejoiced in youth, repented in age.
There are more ways to the wood than one.
Only when all contribute their firewood can they build up a strong fire.
Just as people's faces are different, so are their opinions different.
The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.
Cuss-cuss never bore hole a man' kin.
Where you earn your bread, you don't eat the meat.
When you throw dirt, you lose ground.
No one knows where another's shoe pinches.
Where there is no temptation there is no glory.
God heals, and the doctor takes the fee. (1640)
Pity him who makes an opinion a certainty.
He who eats well speaks well or it is a question of insanity.
Riches fall not always to the lot of the most deserving.
The rubbish we speak is like froth on the water, actions are drops of gold.
There's no better mirror than an old friend.
It is better to be a live rabbit than a tiger.
A woman who does not understand by a look of the eye won't understand by a box of the fist.
Imitation is the highest form of flattery.
A sharp stomach makes short devotion.
The town that parleys is half surrendered.
Time is a file that wears and makes no noise.
In the end we will conserve only what we love; we will love only what we understand; we will understand only what we are taught.
Small profits are often, are better than large profits and seldom.
A prophet has no honour in his own country.
Cast not pearls to swine.
Even after healing, a man once mad would still shout "HOI” once in a while.
Do not put all eggs in one basket.
Put silk on a goat, and it's still a goat.
However much you steal from your state, all the same you won't get your own back.
Death is always news.
All cocks must have a comb.
Clear sky, cultivate; rainy, read.
A monkey that amuses me is better than a deer astray.
Life is like a candle in the wind; like frost on the roof; like the wriggling of the fish in the pan.
A house without a dog or a cat is the house of a scoundrel.
Age does not give sense it only makes one go slowly.
There's nothing new under the sun.
You can't say "prruci” without lips.
The hasty bitch brings forth blind whelps.
Shit rolls downhill.
A slight suspicion may destroy a good repute.
It is only in your coffin that you sleep really well.
A girl unemployed is thinking of mischief.
Foster a raven and it will peck out your eyes.
He is out of danger who rings the alarm-bell.
Better beg than steal.
Time flies like an arrow.
Men nyght onder den boom, daermen te bet afheeft.
A narrow space looks wide to the narrow minded.
A pear will fall to the root of the tree.
The first may become the last.
Seven's a banquet nine a brawl.
Virtue is a jewel of great price.
When a man is falling, every saint pushes him.
The dearer the child, the sharper must be the rod.
There is no saint so petty but claims his own candle.
The bottom of wealth is sometimes a dirty thing to behold.
Nobody ever bought peace but the man who hadn't got it.
Who is blind, dumb and deaf will live a peaceful life of a hundred years.
The world is a wheel and men are the fellowes, and the devil prowling around spins.
Set a fox to catch a fox.
A lazy ox is little the better for the goad.
Hunger finds no fault with the cookery.
If you had been calm, you wouldn't have seen a miracle.
God, healeth, and the physician hath the thanks.
Proverbs are the daughters of daily experience.
It is better to be in hell with a wise man than in heaven with an idiot.
The man who has bread to eat does not appreciate the severity of a famine.
Come out of it standing on all four.
If you destroy a bridge, be sure you can swim.
Fortune is a giver and a taker.
A drop of rain makes no impression on a hard stone.
Don't play with the bear if you don't want to be bit.
With money you can comfort any woman.
The first blow is as good as two.
A man should live to prove himself worth of his own flesh and blood.
Having something on your liver.
There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew.
Time waits for no man.
Not all that glitters is gold; not all that is sticky is tar.
Many can drive an ox; few can plough.
Don't start braiding your rope on a monday or a friday.
No wind is of service to him that is bound for nowhere.
To find ale, go into a bar.
It flies at our approach but follows us as we retire. [A Shadow, Glory, or Love.].
Not every glittering thing is gold.
People think that the poor are not as wise as the rich, for if a man be wise, why is he poor?
A determined heart will not be counselled.
I'll marry, and eat the prime of the pot, and sit down first.
No one knows better where the shoe pinches that he who wears it.
A thousand cups of wine do not suffice when true friends meet, but half a sentence is too much when there is no meeting of minds.
Make good flour, and do not blow the trumpet.
Woman without man is like a field without seed.
Afraid of one's shadow.
Renown is denied to the living.
In his decision the judge with seven reasons gives only one in court.
Be not all sugar, or the world will swallow you up; be not all wormwood, or the world will spit you out.
In a thousand pounds of law there is not one ounce of love.
Spending it is like pouring water into sand.
Sweep first before your own door, before you sweep the doorsteps of your neighbors.
Sound advice had better be welcome.
Your own small place is not like a big place of your companion.
If you are wearing shoes, you don't fear the thorns.
Short is the road that leads from fear to hatred.
A slave shows his true character, not while he is enslaved but when he becomes a master.
Don't borrow someone else's nose to breathe with.
He who betrays you is not one from far away.
Happiness is not perfected until it is shared.
Time betrays and hangs the thief.
To learn what is good, a thousand days are not sufficient; to learn what is evil, an hour is too long.
It's fun to be a guest.
Don't share the skin while it's still on the bear.
From that dust comes this mud.
There never came ill after good advertisement.
To stumble is not falling down but it is to go forward.
Desire beautifies what is ugly.
Every fool is different.
The ox that ran away cannot be caught.
Honest labor is a form of prayer.
Custom without reason is but ancient error.
One eyewitness could be better than ten hearsays.
Welcome, misfortune, if you come alone.
Fortune aids the bold.
The golden key opens every door.
The woman who does not covet the possessions of her husband is in love with another man.
No matter how long and winding the road might be, it will always lead you to your destination.
If you are already wet, you won't care about the rain.
Things beyond our reach are not worth our consideration.
You can't chew with somebody else's teeth.
The gourd that never leaves the boozing centre attains cracks.
Life is for one generation; a good name is forever.
When everyone is a lord, who brings the dung out of the stable?
Our good life sure is there for us, unless we learned some bad conduct in our home as children.
You can give a piece of advice, but not good luck along with that.
Believe a boaster as you would a liar.
Rise early and watch, labour and catch.
Great men have big hearts.
That crown is well spent which saves you ten.
In an instant illumination can be achieved, it is as easy as turning on a light, the problem is finding the switch in the dark.
The lion and the lamb shall lie down together, but the lamb won't get much sleep.
Hunger and cold surrender a man to his enemy.
A purchased vineyard is tantamount to a stolen vineyard.
Let him who does not know what war is go to war.
The idiot who has his eye on your wife is like a blood sucking fly.
To follow everyone is wrong, to follow no one is worse.
De tune you playing no de one I dancing.
An old cat will never learn to dance.
Rain does not make friends with anybody -- it falls on any person it meets outside.
A kind word can attract even the snake from his nest.
Love your neighbour, but do not pull down the fence.
Choosy pigs never get fat.
One half our fatherlands is the ocean.
It's the tortoise's shell, ugly and hard that protects its life long journey on earth.
Less good than they say for the sons of men is the drinking oft of ale: for the more they drink, the less can they think and keep a watch o'er their wits.
God gives nuts to who has no teeth.
He who conquers his anger has conquered an enemy.
"force me, and I shall commit no sin,” said the girl.
They call their aunt only when her cucumbers are ripe.
He who has the fortune brings home the bride.
Не is never at ease that is angry.
Few things are easy to the unwilling.
He who is being carried does not realize how far the town is.
Experience runs a valuable school, but fools learn in no other.
The open door invites the thief.
He who is silent gains store.
Getting things done is largely a matter of getting things started.
God gave us hands but He doesn't build bridges with them.
A little spark can kindle a great fire.
When problems visit a man it arrives with its own bed and table.
The field should be poorer than the farmer.
Ye may gang farther and fare waur.
The robin and the wren are God's cock and hen; the martin and the swallow are God's mate and marrow.
An icon for the mind is like raw vodka for the stomach.
Wise man's anger never comes out.
The cow has no owner.
From snow whether cooked or pounded you will get nothing but water.
Work as if you were to live forever live as if you were to die tomorrow.
Don't let the chicken into the hen house in January.
As soon as man is born he begins to die.
Silence was never written down.
The power of the crocodile is in the water.
He who never goes to your house doesn't want you in his.
Anger edges valor.
In a dangerous river, the alligators swim backstroke.
Those who derive fun watching lunatics, out to have one as a child or relation to know the pains of it.
As long runs the Fox as he hath feet.
If the sun shines on me I care not for the moon.
Whoever marries for love will always live in pain.
Traveling is a return to the essentials.
What youth learns, age does not forget.
Everyone is kneaded out of the same dough but not baked in the same oven.
A pack of cards is the devil's prayer-book.
You do not beat a drum with one finger.
He that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
Half-carried – a well-built load.
A good start is half the job done.
Who has ever seen tomorrow?
All are good lasses, but whence come bad wives?
A faithful friend is hard to find, remember man and keep in mind.
All the flowers of tomorrow are in the seeds of yesterday.
No flock without dog and shepherd.
If you give a handshake to the leopard, next time he will come for an embrace.
The kitchen is older than the mosque.
The responsibility of power is like holding an egg. Grasp it too tightly and it will drip through your fingers; hold it too loosely and it will drop and break.
Ed äsz näszt esi schîn gespanen, Et kid emol un t Lächt der Sanen.
Ask for too much in order to get enough.
The night is good counsellor.
What the law will compel you to do, do of your own free will.
Building castles in the air.
A good name is better than precious ointment.
Thrift is a great revenue. a little, often, leaves wrinkles in the purse.
He who makes one basket can make a hundred.
Better plays a full wemb nor a new coat.
Conscience makes cowards of us all.
days are countries.
All's for the best in the best of all possible worlds.
Time has eaten and drank upon it.
In a house of gold the clocks are of lead.
The son of your son is yours, the son of your daughter is not.
Beautiful things are secured with most difficulty.
Cunning is the ape of wisdom.
A young woman is to an old man the horse that he rides to hell.
Do not think that placid water is without crocodiles.
Without war there can be no peace.
Great thieves punish little ones.
The coward falls.
The devil was good looking at eighteen, and course tea makes a bitter first cup.
Left from there, driven from here.
Small faults indulged in are little thieves that let in greater.
Between imitation and envy, imitation is better.
Better an egg this year than a chicken next year.
Saying salaam is a sign of true faith.
The cure may be worse than the disease.
A slothful man is a beggar's brother.
The one who waits the fine day, will get the fine day.
The first day a guest, the second day a guest, the third day a calamity.
You can catch a cricket in your hand but its song is all over the field.
The wise man who does not put his knowledge into practice is like a bee that gives no honey.
The Italians are wise before the act, the Germans in the act, the French after the act.
As you make your bed, so you must lie in it.
What's left over from the thief is spent on the fortune-teller.
A single hand can not slaughter a cow.
A husband must be deaf and the wife blind to have quietness.
The potter sleeps soundly, for no one would steal clay.
A small bolt to the house is better than none at all.
A piece of bread in the pocket is better than a feather in the hat.
One finger alone cannot kill even a louse.
Be careful when you are sharing a calabash of porridge with a toothless man.
Ambition begets troubles.
The death of one - the bread of the other.
No rose without a thorn.
Water, advice, and salt unasked for should not be given.
A good resolution is like an old horse, which is often saddled but rarely ridden.
Eating while seated makes one of large size.
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
Tomorrow is the day that idlers get busy.
It's a sin and shame, if one sweats at working for a stranger.
Women's tears are a fountain of craft.
He who works as a slave, eats as a king.
He that dares not venture must not complain of ill luck.
Long tongue - short hands.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight.
It's easier to make it than to think about it.
Stupid is as stupid does.
If you take it together, it will not be heavy.
You never know what you can do until you try.
Allah preserve us from ‘If only I'd known!'.
All water runs to the sea.
Your years will still remain the same whether you laugh or cry.
Bear wealth weel, poortith will bear itsel.
When you reject gifts from heaven you will be rewarded in hell.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back, or a fool from any side.
If you fear God, you won't fear humans.
If you want to hear the truth about yourself - offend your neighbor.
Pride and dignity would belong to women if only men would leave them alone.
One briar does not make a hedge.
The end of an ox is beef, and the end of a lie is grief.
Catch before hanging.
Every man has his peculiar habit.
Even a monk can't shave his own head.
The virtue of a woman does not go deep but her passion knows no limit.
One "Take it" is more worth than two "Thou shalt have it".
Be the same thing that thou wald be cald.
Ability is the poor man's wealth.
Even a pigeon has a pussy.
Anger ends in cruelty.
A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft.
Education is a subversive activity.
A fair day in winter is the mother of a storm.
To one who does not know, a who garden is a forest.
By fair means or foul.
Better free in a foreign land than a serf at home.
A fierce dog ruins a liquor store business.
Afar, it enraptures the heart, when near, it rends the gallbladder.
Where there is love there is no darkness.
Some man bu'n dem hand when they only mean to warm dem.
You think you've lost your horse? who knows, he may bring a whole herd back to you someday.
Against a thousand crows one stone is enough.
Fortune never comes with both hands full.
If you ask a Negro where he's been, he'll tell you where he's going.
Don't go selling the hide while the bear remains in the hole.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day.
The ocean gives and sustain life to the worthy.
What's done cannot be undone.
A hair on the head is worth two on the brush.
Some small spark may yet by chance lie hidden.
Pregnancy and fire cannot be kept secret.
Buy friendship wi' presents, and it will be bought frae you.
The meaning is best known to the speaker.
Butter on the tongue, poison in the heart.
I speak of garlic, you reply about onions.
You must act as if it is impossible to fail.
A buffeting threatened is never well given.
Love rules without law.
A beautiful woman smiling, bespeaks a purse weeping.
Better something on the arm than all in the stomach.
An ass in a lion's skin.
Haste is from the Devil.
Lie down with dogs, wake up with fleas.
Speech both conceals and reveals the thoughts of men.
Only when a new government comes to power do you learn to appreciate the values of the old one.
It is very savoury to eat scot free.
He who has nothing is afraid of nothing.
An egg shouldn't be deceived by the hardness of its shell; it cannot challenge a stone in a fight.
Help yourself and the God will also help you.
Diseases come on horseback, but steal away on foot.
The less we know, the more we suspect.
Never place friendship above profit.
The good shepherd shears, not flays.
Faith has no eyes; he who asks to see has no faith.
When you look into the mouth of a corpse, you won't want to save money.
No one so hard upon the poor as the pauper who has got into power.
A full seck will take a clout on the side.
Bread is better than the song of birds.
The absent has always got a justification.
Don't give the sparrow in the hand for the crow on the fence.
He that eats his fowl alone may saddle his horse alone.
Man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave. (Thomas Browne)
It is easy to frighten the bull from the window.
A man is as big as the things that made him mad.
A rich man is happy while he is alive but sorry when he dies.
So got, so gone.
Most of us do not look as handsome to others as we do to ourselves.
Don't delay today's work until tomorrow.
A sheep cannot bleat in two different places at the same time.
One man's trash is another man's treasure.
Distance lends enchantment to the view.
It is bad luck to fall out of a thirteenth story window on Friday.
Where there are many masters the servant becomes mad.
There are misfortunes in almost every family.
'Tis as cheap sitting as standing.
Those who have free seats at the play are the first to hiss.
Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear.
A day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy.
Delays increase desires and sometimes extinguish them.
The woman cries before the wedding and the man after.
Do me a favour during a rainy season and I shall do the same to you during the dry season.
An old flag is an honour to its captain.
It's no shame to look into the warm spring sun and regret a lost limb.
Peccadilloes at home, deadly sins abroad.
Gold should be sold to the one who knows the value of it.
A man with little learning is like the frog who thinks its pond is an ocean.
An ant's nest could bring down a hill.
Youth sheds many a skin. The steed does not retain its speed forever.
The army is the poison and the people are the water in which the poison is mixed.
On the ladder to success there is always somebody on the rung above you and who uses your head to steady himself.
Praise the young and they will make progress.
You can often find in rivers what you cannot find in oceans.
The Fox's wiles will never enter the lion's head.
When we show our respect for other living things, they respond with respect for us.
He who mocks the cripple should be straight himself.
He who walks with the lame learns how to limp.
Where there's money, there is the devil; but where there's none, a greater evil.
A peg for every hole.
Good day, bean! Have you seen another somewhere?
If you don't deceive, you can't sell.
Your fingers can't be of the same length.
Scabics are given to him who has no fingernails.
No garden without its weeds.
Hyenas are caught with stinking bait.
First weigh, then venture.
The absent always bear the blame.
A small benefit obtained is better than a great one in expectation.
Every man has his value.
The ill-mannered child finds a father wherever he goes.
Older than you by a day, wiser than you by a year.
Tell me what you want to buy and I will tell you what you are.
Faster than an arrow.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants.
You must wash your hands of it.
The rebellious dwell in a dry land.
Some men build a wine cellar after only finding one grape.
Do you want to experience real thirst? Then try eating bitter cardoons and roasted fava beans.
Leave evil, it will leave you.
The devil was sick, the Devil a saint would be; the Devil was well, the devil a saint was he.
Bear patiently that which you suffer by your own fault.
Without pressing too little or too hard, hold tight the reins for he's a fool who would not get value from a borrowed horse.
God sends never the mouth, but the meat with it.
Woo sellers ken aye woo-buyers.
It is not the thief who is hanged, but one who was caught stealing.
One can not stop sleeping in fear of bad dreams.
He who would steal honey, must not be afraid of bees.
When it thunders, the thief becomes honest.
Death meets us everywhere.
A little help does a great deal.
A bashful beggar has an empty wallet.
Admiration is the daughter of ignorance.
There's none so deaf as those who will not hear.
The worst hog often gets the best pear.
Try to strike a happy medium.
Only death will cure the hunchback.
The hare was offended with the mountain, but the mountain did not notice.
It is not right to ask a man with elephantiasis of the scrotum to take on small pox as well, when thousands of other people have not had even their share of small diseases.
As the weather goes, so goes the patient.
A por man with his child a rich man with his wealth.
Experience is a revelation in the light of which we renounce our errors of youth for those of age. (Ambrose Bierce)
Emulation is the whetstone of talent.
He keeps his word, as the sun keeps butter.
Giving gifts to the rich is like pouring water into the sea.
The spring makes the stream flow.
A hen is heavy when carried far.
Though your fame is great, it is not good.
One who enters a forest does not listen to the breaking of the twigs in the brush.
The man who can't dance says the band can't play.
Patience is a plant that does not grow in everyone's garden.
If a blind man leads another, they both fall together.
Men are best loved farthest off.
It is foolish for someone to remain thirsty when he is in the midst of water.
In a world of blind people, a one-eyed man is king.
The happiest life ends before death.
Ride slower – you'll get further.
Every tree casts shadow on its own bottom.
The horse that draws best is the most whipped.
You may be clever but you can never lose your shadow.
Meaning: Blaming the wrong reason. Looking for a scapegoat.
There would be no slanderers if none would listen to them.
It needs more skill than I can tell to play the second fiddle well.
Victory has 100 fathers and defeat is an orphan.
Rain does not stay in the sky.
The golden age never was the present age.
The kurds have no friends.
A pleasant think never comes too soon.
If the weather is fine, put on you cloak; if it rains, do as you please.
A pig on credit makes a good winter and a bad spring.
A little help is better than a lot of pity.
A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood.
He who does not know how to plant will plant in november.
Married to-day, married to-morrow.
A slave yesterday, to-day a freedman.
He who caresses thee more than the occasion justifies, has either deceived thee or intends it.
When a blind man tells you he is going to throw a stone, know that his foot is on the stone.
Liberal enough of another man's leather.
A mother's tenderness for her children is as discreet as the dew that kisses the earth.
A wolf in sheep's clothing.
Let aye the bell'd wether break the snaw.
The steps at court are slippery.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
Never mind storms and snows for the sake of a friend.
He is not fat -- it is his belt that doesn't fit.
The interested friend is a swallow on the roof.
He who has a wax head must not go near the fire.
He that fears you present will hate you absent.
A knife does not know who is its master.
A living dog is better than a dead lion.
Snailie, snailie, shoot out yer horn, and tell us if it'll be a bonny day the morn.
Old as is the boat it may cross the ferry once.
He fasts and fasts, then he breaks his fast with an onion.
The hungry fowl wakes early.
A pennyworth of mirth is worth a pound of sorrow.
The kite in the skies doesn't feed on clouds.
Friendship doubles joy and halves grief.
We have a craw to pluck.
Life has become a little less sweet, death a little less bitter.
He who swells in prosperity will shrink in adversity.
Smoke, stench, and a troublesome wife are what drive men from home.
A friend is not known till he is lost.
Peel a fig for your friend, a peach for your enemy.
Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby.
Kiss any arm you cannot break, a and pray to God to break it.
Call a spade a spade.
He who has a glass roof on his own house, must not throw stones at others.
He who drinks water with one hand finds out his thirst is still there.
By pleasing, while we instruct.
Forever is a long bargain.
Anger is a short madness.
Keep both eyes open before you are married and afterwards close only one.
Married folk are like rats in a trap - fain to get others in, but fain to be out themselves.
White meal is not got out of a coal-sack.
The earth is not ours, it is a treasure we hold in trust for future generations.
The food that is in the mouth is not yet in the belly.
A wooden bed is better than a golden coffin.
He who is unable to dance blames it in the stony yard.
All roads lead to Rome.
There are no witnesses to a dream.
The perch has a good time, it drinks when it wants to.
Happiness is a place between too little and too much.
Every age wants its playthings.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
Nothing dries faster than tears.
A weapon which you don't have in your hand won't kill a snake.
There is no tax upon lying.
In a healthy body, a healthy spirit.
The hand suffers at work, but the mouth still must eat.
He who buys by the pennyworth keeps his own house and other men's too.
He has sprung up like a mushroom.
A full sail helped him to arrive.
Anything is better than a bad marriage.
In february, don't postpone a trip.
This, too, shall pass.
It's not over till it's over.
A mountain doesn't mix with a mountain.
When you are looking upwards you see no frontiers.
Who robs commits a sin, who is robbed commits a hundred.
There is no hiding place on the water surface.
Kill not the goose that lays the golden egg.
Knaves and fools divide the world.
The locksmith is the guilty one, but the blacksmith hangs.
Talking without thinking is like shooting without taking aim.
Leadership by example.
One may survive distress, but not disgrace.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
Custom is the guide of the ignorant.
Marriages are written in heaven.
All married women are not wives.
If you accommodate others, you will be accommodating yourself.
Goodness shouts. Evil whispers.
One can see it but must not say, when the master of a house passes excreta in a pot.
He who studies does not waste his time.
The enemy you know is better than the one you do not know.
A morsel eaten selfishly does not gain a friend.
The judge also dies.
Even a boy can beat a man when bound.
Words can kill before arms.
Only fools are glad when governments change.
He who does not seize opportunity today, will be unable to seize tomorrow's opportunity.
Bad friends will prevent you from having good friends.
Every man likes the smell of his own farts.
A man with too much ambition cannot sleep in peace.
There's no need to fear the wind if your haystacks are tied down.
The drunkard always tells the truth.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby. (Strauss 1994, p. 683)
A shameless person has no sense of shame at all.
You cannot cook your eggs with wind.
The day is for working, the night is for resting.
He who spits towards the sky is spitting on his face.
A long dispute has been forgoten by love, or sometimes a long time of goodness has been forgotten by one badness.
The lion's power lies in our fear of him.
Credit is dead, bad pay killed it.
A dirty floor means a busy stove.
You compare the moorhen to the I swan.
Poverty is not a shame, but the being ashamed of it is.
He who lies thrice believes he's told the truth.
Prayer and practice is good rhyme.
Poverty is death in another form.
Old thanks are not for new gifts.
A sleeping head needs more than its neck to support it.
The spot that makes the warrior benkei cry.
Hold short services for minor Gods.
When father drinks beer the children are hungry.
There isn't a Holy Week without the fifty days, nor the fifty days without the Sirocco.
A person with a wound on his head keeps touching it.
You didn't turn up when sense was being distributed.
Neutrals tread on eggs and break none.
Nobody is to eat the morsel of someone else.
The thoughtless person buries a well when he is thirsty.
There is no day without its night.
What the old ones sing, the young ones whistle.
If someone puts their trust in you, don't sever it.
God heals, and the doctor gets the money.
If a bird bills the rock then it trusts its beck.
One calamity is better than a thousand counsels.
Do not ridicule the thin-bearded when you yourself have no beard.
We learn by standing on the shoulders of the wise.
A fool's spark glows in all men.
When one is taking a chicken from its roost, the hen is bound to attack with at least its claws.
If the warrior's spirit has not escaped, the battle is still going on.
A single man can not build a house.
Hunger is an infidel.
Help me during the flood, and I will help you during the drought.
Step by step one goes to Rome.
He that eats least, eats most.
He who eats the meat let him pick the bone.
Spur not a free horse to death.
If the judge is against you, you should withdraw the complaint.
A horse can trip.
When the cat's away the rats dance.
The new boat will find the old stones.
He who led me in the night, will be thanked by me at daybreak.
We should not burn the light in both ends.
Blest is the bride the sun shines on.
It is not necessary to fish up every bucket that falls into the well.
Hope sustains the farmer.
Who says little has little to answer for.
Do not abuse midwives while child-bearing continues.
A person is a guest for one or two days, but becomes an intruder on the third.
If you've brought the devil aboard, you'll have to row him ashore.
A dog gives birth to a dog.
The stomach is not content with nice words.
What's the good of a fair apple if it has a worm in its heart?
Better a goat that can give milk than a cow that cannot.
The person who is always criticizing others is usually the one who deserves criticism the most.
As they pipe to me, I will dance.
Many take by the bushel, and give with the spoon.
Error carries away the unteachable.
It is better to see for oneself than to be informed by a third person.
Don't talk with your mouth full.
One does not become great by claiming greatness.
To sing before breakfast is to weep before supper.
You are like a tree, giving your shade to the outside.
When you talk about the sun, you will see her beams.
He who riducules a deformed person becomes deformed himself.
Justice delayed is justice denied.
There is more wisdom in listening than in speaking.
Candour breeds hatred.
You can stay a thousand miles away from home and still see inside.
Fear is worse than fighting.
Every kind of love is love, but self-love is supreme among them.
Much laughter, little wit.
He that has not money in his purse should have honey in his mouth.
One's skills are his inexhaustible treasure keeping him from hunger wherever he goes.
The river does not swell with clear water.
Stretch your legs the length of your bed.
Eighteen daughters beautiful as goddesses are not as good as one crippled son.
It's like talking to a brick wall.
Before you marry, watch what you do.
Hunt hunti ei murra.
Death keeps no almanack.
Women and wine rid a man of his common sense.
Why didn't the midwife, who cut your naval string, cut your head instead?
To guess is cheap, to guess wrong is expensive.
A wise mans ink lasts until only the stupid remain.
A travelled child knows better than the old man who sits at home.
The sieve says to the needle, "You have a hole in your tail."
Passed waters don't move watermills.
A single roll of taro top is delicious if seasoned with affection.
A bird may fly off the earth and land on an anthill, but it will still be on the ground.
All the art lies in making the best of a bad market.
Once the cattle have been split up, then the tiger strikes.
My blood ran cold.
Kiss the hand you can not cut.
To get may rest on luck, to keep may rest on virtue.
In a restaurant choose a table near a waiter.
When fortune knocks, open the door.
He who has crossed the ford knows how deep it is.
Dog eats excreta, but goat gets rotten teeth.
He who throws himself under the bench will be left to lie there.
Poverty is no sin, but it is a branch of roguery.
An old horse for a young soldier.
Fools ask questions that wise men cannot answer.
The belly does not have a conscience.
Too many sacks are the death of the ass.
When rain beats on a leopard it wets it, but rain does not wash out its spots.
If you rise too early, the dew will wet you.
In borrowing an angel, in repaying a devil.
Good as drink is, it ends in thirst.
The horns are dry but they keep the house in plenty.
It's better not to poke a jaguar with a short staff.
While they are in the valley he treats her as his wife, while on the hill he treats her as his sister.
A man that begets a barren cannot have a grand child.
Don't let the peasant know how good the cheese with the pears is.
An archer cannot hit the bullseye if he doesnt know where the target is.
Put new wine into old bottles..
A man finds many faults in a woman when he wants to divorce, and finds many charms in one's fianc6e.
God detests a man who rushes to accuse a neighbor.
Know, cabbages, that there is spinach in the stew.
A bird that imitates others does not get used to a place.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgment.
The laying hen says: give me feed to fill my beak and I'll give you eggs.
Better to fear than to be frightened.
When the cook is roasting for the butler, woe to the master's wine-cask.
Too compassionate the doctor, too inadequate the treatment.
The act of treachery is liked, but not he that does it.
A mule that thinks he is a stag discovers his mistake when he comes to leap over the ditch.
When your leg is sinking your whole body should fill it.
A dirty fire never made a clean weld.
There's no wise man without a fault.
As the baker, so the buns; as the father, so the sons.
Tie the burden securely and go off singing.
Every cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
He who offends writes on sand, he who is offended on marble.
The anger is not warrantable that has seen two suns.
He who pelts another with paddles asks for stones in return.
The while we keep a man waiting, he reflects on our shortcomings.
If you can't endure the bad, you won't live to witness the good.
An honest man is not the worse because a dog barks at him.
He sings the same old song.
Fortune favours the brave.
Marry in haste repent at leisure.
God preserve you from one who eats without drinking.
With a friend behind you, you have a safe bridge.
When a man is not a lover in his twenties, not strong in his thirties, not rich in his forties and not wise in his fifties he will never be so.
A blate cat makes a proud mouse.
Enough is enough, and too much spoils.
Childhood should be happy and carefree.
Without wind, the ears of the grass do not move.
When a crow is killed by a storm, the fortuneteller says, "He died by my curse."
A wish is a desire without an attempt.
Never stand in front of a judge or behind a donkey.
If we did not flatter ourselves, the flattery from others would not harm us.
We have seen a hare, we shall have no luck.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
Kindness begets kindness.
A patient woman can roast an ox with a lantern.
Temper your enthusiasm with judgement.
Walnuts and pears you plant for your heirs.
Idleness is a sort of suicide.
To the fighting man peace is sure.
One doesn't call a hyena to displine a troublesome goat.
The child who grows up with you is your fellow.
Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury.
Great care is no defense against Fate.
A servant serves two kings, he is true to one.
A sparrow suffers as much when it breaks its leg as does a Flanders horse.
The strongest ox is only as strong as the old ox with a broken leg.
Like the needle which clothes others while remaining naked.
A man of honor will feel ashamed by a single question to which he does not know the answer.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring; a cut may heal but the cut of the tongue does not.
He that sits among reeds, cuts pipes when he pleases.
There are more threatened than hurt.
True friends are like diamonds, precious and rare; false ones like autumn leaves, found everywhere.
Every bed has lice.
Penny wise, and pound foolish.
The corruption of the best things makes the worst.
The best things come in small parcels.
All people share the same ancestry.
Many words do not fill a basket.
He that fought the lion must surely have the lion's claws in his body.
It is easy to forget a kindness, but one remembers unkindness.
It is too late to cry "Hold hard!” when the arrow has left the bow.
Don't cross the bridge until you come to it.
Great wealth, great care.
A sly rabbit will have three openings to its den.
Now my resources are reduced to a narrow compass.
And Nathan said unto David: And Nathan said unto David: "Thou art the man."
Never spread your corn to dry before the door of a saintly man.
It is an easy matter for a stingy man to get rich -- but what's the use?
Lions in time of peace; deer in war.
A bad coconut spoils the good ones.
In hawks, hounds, arms, and love, for one pleasure a thousand pains.
Usage is like law.
There is no wind that blows right for the sailor who doesn't know where the harbor is.
A light belly, heavy heart.
Better a Jew without a beard than a beard without a Jew.
If you want to be a hundred you must start young.
His eyes are like two burnt holes in a blanket.
Barefooted folk shouldna tread on thorns.
The worm that exposes itself on the ground is waiting for a lucky bird to devour it.
Two is an army against one.
He is not honest who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company the soup is hot.
You will always be lucky if you know how to make friends with strange cats.
He who eats with you will not die with you except he who was born with you.
Through falls and stumbles, one learns to walk.
Without divine assistance we can achieve nothing.
Love is blind -- but not the neighbors.
The best parents are both purses for money and sacks for the corn.
Misfortune seldom comes alone to the house.
Silence has a mighty noise.
If you marry a young woman, make sure your friends stay outside.
If it goes, it goes, don't force it.
The older the fool, the harder he falls.
The fate of the gypsy's horse.
Foam will always find its way to the shore.
A mester is a master in hell as well.
Never dread the winter till the snow is on the blanket.
Softly, don't raise a dust.
Those who labor with their minds rule; those who labor with their bodies are ruled.
A kiss without a moustache is like beef without mustard.
If rain bothers you, you can always jump into the sea.
What is no sin, is no shame.
Red sea: good morning weather. Red mountains: water and wind.
The dog that has its bitch in town never barks well.
Men prone to tears are good.
Marry in May, rue for aye.
When cicadas sing, the swineherd weeps and works. When frogs sing, the swineherd yawns.
He who slowly gets angry will stay angry for a long time.
Who makes friends of all, keeps none.
Great abilities produce great vices as well as virtues.
When the cat's away, the mice will play.
Even the white lily casts a shadow.
Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead.
One stupid person asks more than ten wise ones can spare time answering.
One who sees his friends roasted on a spit tells all he knows.
One should not beg with a basket.
Once bit, twice shy.
One glass can ruin all the beer.
A fool has many days.
You always knock yourself on the tenderest places.
You may break a horse's back, be he never so strong.
A cat that licks the spit is not to be trusted with roast meat.
Pouring oil on the fire is not the way to quench it.
Locks keep out only the honest.
Success is 10% ability, and 90% sweat.
Avoiding the drop, he found himself under the gutter.
No matter how long a log floats on the river, it will never be a crocodile.
You do not drink soup with a knife.
We should bolster the light rather than fight the darkness.
Fine words don't fill the belly.
A crazy man can be recognized not by his words, but by his actions.
The bachelors crave to get married, and the married ones regret they got married.
Tomorrow is often the busiest time of the year.
If you can bear the hissing of a snake, don't complain when you are bitten.
Feather by feather a goose is plucked.
A good husband should be deaf and a good wife blind.
Death has its advantages too ie it benifits those who inherit.
When all is wet to the skin, hold out yet.
A dog in the manger, that neither eats nor lets others eat.
Hunger will lead a fox out of the forest.
Little thieves have iron chains, and great thieves gold ones.
He who devours his neighbour's fowl, its foot prints will give him away.
Eat when you're hungry, and drink when you're dry.
When you want to test the depths of a stream, don't use both feet.
The store of rice in your attic is your enemy -- it makes them who have none very jealous.
The owl tells the sparrow that her head is big.
Do not put all your eggs in one basket.
Speak well of others.
A word and a stone once launched cannot be recalled.
Choose your inn before dark, get back on the road before dawn.
The Older one marries, the longer the nights.
"red is love's colour,” said the wooer to his foxy charmer.
They laugh at you when your going but when you came back with a load they're a shamed.
He feels like a cat in an strange warehouse.
When a child knows how to wash his hands well, he eats with the elders.
The one who asks commits no sin.
If you laugh to-day, you will cry to-morrow.
Who dangles after the great is the last at table and the first to be cuffed.
Choose an old doctor and a new pharmacist.
To watch us dance is to hear our hearts speak.
Can a burst dam be mended with toothpicks?
There is only one good - knowledge; there is only one evil - ignorance.
What is too high, that let fly.
A boor remains a boor even if sleeping on silken pillows.
The strength of the old is their ready counsel.
God neither hurries, nor is late.
Time makes love pass.
When the white man wins, it is a battle.
Learning makes people fit company for themselves.
You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear.
He pours oil on the fire.
Beauty but bounty avails nought.
More desperate than a drowning person.
A good chief gives, he does not take.
Everyone is weary: the poor in seeking, the rich in keeping, the good in learning.
One must row in whichever boat one finds one's self.
It's nice to have a spoon in time for dinner.
Big fish are fished in big rivers.
A hundred-year-old revenge still has its baby teeth.
A great affair covers up a small matter.
There's no argument like that of the stick.
It is useless, once the water is gone, to hurry.
A hero only appears once the tiger is dead.
He who has been first a novice and then an abbot, knows what the boys do behind the altar.
Many a flower is born to blush unseen.
A colt you may break, but an old horse you never can.
There can be no offense where none is taken.
Eat when you are hungry; drink when you are dry.
Virtue subdues power.
Women, money, and wine have their balm and their harm.
New comes welcome.
The mouth of fools pours out foolishness.
To taste the sweet, you must taste the bitter.
Wealth makes many friends.
There are many ways of killing a dog without choking him with butter.
He who knows how to move around becomes strong. He will live longer than the sedentary man.
He who digs a pit for others, will fall in it himself.
Where the carcass is, there the ravens will collect together.
A dead enemy is as good as a cold friend.
A gracious woman obtains honor, and strong men obtain riches.
The cockroach cannot be innocent in a court where the hen is judge.
If you want to know what a ducat is worth, try to borrow one.
A man may die old at thirty and young at eighty.
He who has travelled alone can tell what he likes.
God takes care of the one who takes care of himself.
'tis well that wicked cows have short horns.
Days cannot be tied in a bundle.
What you plant, that you will harvest.
Sleep is the cousin of death.
It is not wrong to go back for that which you have forgotten.
Shooting space garbage is no test of a warriors mettle.
Pleasent words will draw the snake from its hole.
A lean horse does not kick.
Who would be mean to his darling, especially before the wedding?
Penny is penny's brother.
He who takes no care of little things, will not have the care of great ones.
Give neither advice nor salt, until you are asked for it.
With seven nurses the child loses its eye.
As we didn't say a word, he thought he could do anything he liked.
He who is afraid of the leaves must not go into the wood.
Where the lion's skin falls short, borrow of the fox.
Ring the bells for whoever eats snails and drinks water, because he's dead.
The sins we often regret are the sins we never commit.
He assumes a cheerful countenance suppressing the grief which weighs heavily on his heart.
He who knows a great deal has a hundred eyes.
A fault denied is twice committed.
A rolling stone is not covered with moss.
The wise man is great through his own merits.
The sting of a reproach is the truth of it.
As good haud, as draw.
A brother's wrath is a devil's wrath.
My No is as good as your Yes.
One picture is worth ten thousand words.
Don't cross the stream to get water.
If a drum is not made, it is the fault of the master; but if the drum is made and is not beaten, then that is the fault of the boys.
To rise at five, dine at nine, sup at five, go to bed at nine, makes a man live to ninety-nine.
Revenge is a dish served cold.
The person who God shows a treasure to must dig it out himself.
Ability has no school.
Everything is funny as long as it happens to someone else.
A person must stand very tall to see their own fate.
You have choosen your weapon, so fight.
Habit is a shirt that we wear till death.
Better is one lady than 4 widows.
No man can make another's destiny and all the wishing in the world will not make it so.
A good dog never barks at fault.
If you get to thinking you're a person of some influence, try ordering somebody else's dog around.
If you want to know who your friends are, lie by the roadside and pretend to be drunk.
He who feels himself scabby, let him scratch.
Boys seldom make passes at girls wearing glasses.
Lying and stealing are next door neighbors.
He who longs too much for a child will marry a pregnant woman.
An elephant does not get tired carrying his trunk.
Plants oft removed never thrive.
Truth and oil always rise above.
Luck is loaned, not owned.
When you treat someone like a wild cat, he will steal your chickens.
No fate is worse than a life without a love.
Rage is not without reason.
A glaring sunny morning, a woman that talks Latin, and a child reared on wine, never come to a good end.
A dog cannot eat a bone tied to a snake.
Hospitality to the exile, and broken bones to the oppressor.
Не that loves the tree, loves the branch.
Even from an enemy a man can learn wisdom.
Wherever you go, habit follows.
The ignorant think the Self can be known by the intellect, but the illumined know he is beyond the duality of the knower and the known.
Grow into boulders
Envy envies itself.
As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.
To-day must borrow nothing of to-morrows.
Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night.
A second marriage is like a warmed-up meal.
Either learn or leave.
If you do not agree with the phases of the moon, get a ladder and repair it.
You never get clean flour from a coal sack.
The frog select a leader.
Having is haying, come whence it may.
The teeth and the tongue are close neighbors, and yet they sometimes bite each other.
Hit him with a bean, he will break.
When a woman cannot have good palm-nuts to give her rich oil, she still has to maintain decency in order to remain one of those that sell good quality oil.
What matters is the menu on the table now.
Father's debt, son to give back.
Man is like a banana: when he leaves the bunch, he gets skinned.
The life of an old man can be compared with the flame of a candle in a drought.
A bride received into the home is like a horse that you have just bought; you break her in by constantly mounting her and continually beating her.
The cat bit your tongue.
Rather than an abatement of her viciousness, a witch gives birth to only female children and witchcraft multiplies .
He who grasps at all, holds nothing fast.
Habbit is a second nature.
If my aunt had a beard, this man would be my uncle.
The bird leaves no trail.
June rains consume the world.
It is not enough to know how to ride you must also know how to fall.
The man of sense does not hang up his knowledge.
He that feels sorry for the shoe, loses the horse.
A child must first creep, then go.
Good accounts make good friends.
Hearing is never as good as seeing.
The bitterness of studying is preferable to the bitterness of ignorance.
Lose nothing for want of asking.
Hope for God, but do not be reliant.
The italians are wise before the deed; the germans in the deed; the french after the deed.
He who inherits a penny is expected to spend a dollar.
Not all nice things are dear, but those that are dear are nice.
Only the blind gropes in the darkness.
Warm water never forgets that it was once cold.
Often a cow does not take after its breed.
If it is to be luck, the bull may as well calve as the cow.
Count the skins of badgers which haven't been caught.
The tougher the fight, the sweeter the triumph.
I have a sliddery Eel by the tail.
Every time one laughs a nail is removed from one's coffin.
The maw costs much.
Your winning is no my tinsel.
Treat thoughts as guests and wishes as children.
Five of them would run from the bang of one empty gun.
Went in one ear and out the other.
An elephant never tires of carrying his own trunk.
In time a mouse will gnaw through a cable.
Once bitten by a snake, he is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope.
Go to Jericho.
I am a mud hut, I can not stand shocks.
You don't wash blood away with blood but with water.
He must indeed be a good master who never does wrong.
As you brew so shall you bake.
It is better to cut off the head that has no pride.
Don't build the bungalow on an inch of ground.
Every man will have his own turn served.
If you want to eat pickled herring, think about the thirst you will have.
Blood can never turn into water.
Wisdom is in the head, not in the beard.
For a mad dog, seven versts is not a long detour.
Prepare the sickles in May, use the sickles in June, and in July carry the sickles to the tool shed.
longer than a sepration day.
Divide and rule [or conquer]. Attributed to Julius Caesar.
First dig a well, then steal the minaret.
The first time, forgive; the second time, hang.
Fate aids the courageous.
To talk without thinking is to shoot without aiming.
When a fool is cursed, he thinks he is being praised.
When a bull gets his leg broken, he is sure to go back to his yard.
Lose an hour in the morning, chase it all day.
Some think they have done when they are only beginning.
He who asks won't lose his way.
A cat in its castle has a lion's teeth.
If a stone was thrown at you, throw back some bread in return.
A woman is a flower in a garden; her husband is the fence around it.
The more the mother-in-law drinks the more friendly is her greeting.
A Russian is a Russian even if fried with butter.
He that marries for money will earn it.
Pigs in the cold and men in drink make a great noise.
Only when you have eaten a lemon do you appreciate what sugar is.
Of all pains, the greatest pain, is to love, but love in vain.
Those who never protect the values of their ancestors their soul will never rest peacefully.
Wha' got blood got feelings.
There is no better mirror than a best friend.
A horse without spurs is like a ship without a rudder.
It is easier to visit friends than to live with them.
As is the music, thus will be the dance.
If someone cannot even keep his own secrets, don't count on him to keep someone else's.
A good man gone wrong is usually a bad man found out.
There is no worse curse than to desire a man's death.
If gold falls into the mud, it won't become bronze.
We should build with the stones we have.
He that steals a calf steals a cow.
It is best to learn wisdom by the experience of others.
He reckons without his host.
One drink is just right; two is too many; three are too few.
The right balance depends on the weigher.
Weed 'um and reap.
Who lives in lust will die in hunger for fat.
Breed up a serpent and he will strike when you are in deep slumber.
A hungry pig dreams of acorns.
Winter comes fast on the lazy.
Lightning over the Tatras (Nad Tatrou sa blýska) is the national anthem of Slovakia.
Whether you touch it, or you eat it, it's still garlic.
A barrel that contains the wine will retain the drop in its staves.
To try and to fail is not laziness.
At the wedding-feast the least eater is the bride.
To do like the monkey, get the chesnuts out of the fire with the cat's paw.
Raise your head proudly high.
He was never good since the time a yard made a coat for him.
Before me peaceful, behind me peaceful, under me peaceful, over me peaceful, all around me peaceful.
Confide in a woman and a magpie if you want something to be broadcast.
Active people never have louse bites.
The fox knows a lot, but a woman in love knows even more.
Bolted windows with the door ajar.
There is no man that cannot become an orphan.
Young folk, silly folk; old folk, cold folk.
Love makes a man both blind and deaf.
Folly is the product of all countries and ages.
God does not beat one with a stick.
Money covers blame.
Hearing is not seeing.
A hungry man will thrust his fingers into a snake's hole in search of a grasshopper.
Make way for a madman and a bull.
You can't hide behind your finger.
The rich are always complaining.
Making a rod for your own back.
He who begins badly, ends badly.
Every one gives himself credit for more brains than he has, and less money.
Covetousness is the father of unfulfilled desires.
The crab would catch the hare!
Opportunity creates desire.
Cowboys don't walk round calling themselves cowboys.
Ignorance is bliss.
Before you beat the dog, find out the name of his master.
Take only what you need and leave the land as you found it.
Nothing looks more like an honest man than a villain.
Do not look at gift horse's mouth.
He who touches pitch defiles himself.
Success consecrates the foulest crimes.
One cannot count on riches.
When a peasant gets rich, he knows neither relations nor friends.
Peace lasts till the army comes, and the army lasts till peace comes.
The Sparrows quarrel over somebody else's millet.
To one who understands, a mosquito is a lute, to one who does not understand, a drum and zurna are little.
Speak what needs to be said, or stay silent.
Be brave, not ferocious.
Prayer is the pillow of religion.
There is more than one dog name bob.
Each cross has its own inscription.
Happy is the man to whom nature has given a sufficiency with even a sparing hand.
All are not cooks that walk with long knives.
You cannot hit the point of a needle with a fist.
The blacksmith in one village becomes a blacksmith's apprentice in another.
Whither goes thou, misfortune? to where there is more.
The family is like the forest. If you are outside, it is dense.
Were it a wolf it would spring at your throat.
He needs say nothing about the score who pays nothing.
The world still he keeps at his staff's end that needs not to borrow and never will lend.
A meal without flesh is like feeding on grass.
Reading scripture in front of a donkey.
He who makes himself a dove is eaten by the hawk.
In small woods may be caught large hares.
A fool can ask more questions in a minute than a wise man can answer in an hour.
A handsome man is not quite poor.
Better to be queen for an hour than a countess for life.
He who loses is always in fault.
Cover up the pot, there's an eel in it.
Sometimes the whole nation has to pay for the foolish deed of one man.
Without due effort one is not entitled to the fruits of the work.
A forest would want to be burned by its own wood.
Nose like the gate's pillar in Bethlehem.
There is misfortune only where there is wealth.
Men after the modern fashion, and asses after the ancient.
Under fair words beware of fraud.
The day I did not sweep the house, there came to it one I did not expect.
Don't praise the bread that is not out of the oven.
Dumb men get no land.
Shoemakers are always the worst shod.
Man is like a breath, his days like a passing shadow.
The swift are overtaken by the slow.
If a job is worth doing, it's worth doing well.
Faith will move mountains.
None knows the weight of another's burden.
Victory has hundred fathers and defeat is an orphan.
Choose the stone by the size of the frog.
Praise is easier got than kept.
A good word never broke a tooth.
Devils must be driven out with devils.
Whichever hand is cut, the whole body feels the pain.
If you make a habit of buying things you do not need.
Let the wary stranger who seeks refreshment keep silent with sharpened hearing.
No wonder if he breaks his head who stumbles twice over one stone.
Only a goat that is tired of life invites a lion to dinner.
When your neighbor walks through your orchard, the polite thing to do is to ignore it.
Kindness brings happiness.
Our wisdom is no less at Fortune's mercy than our wealth.
A thousand friends are few; one enemy is too many.
When in doubt, lie.
If two brothers fight over their father's land, it is a stranger who will enjoy there sweat and labour.
The dog called "Sorrow," without eating, will be fat in every house.
Six feet of earth makes all men equal.
He who cheats a cheat and robs a thief, earns a dispensation for 100 years.
All things change, and we change with them.
We must blame the thief first before we say that where the owner put her property improper.
Where there are no hounds the fox is king.
Water by Saint John's takes oil and doesn't give bread.
Pride is the mask of one's own faults.
May your reign
He who buys the broom can also buy the handle.
When you fall into a pit, you either die or get out.
A little of what you fancy does you good.
Word is not a sparrow: flies out, can't catch it.
He makes an elephant out of a mosquito.
Never trust overmuch to a new friend or an old enemy.
A monk in his cloister, a fish in the water, a thief in the gallows.
Every anguish passes except the anguish of hunger.
Do not make me kiss, and you will not make me sin.
When the angels arrive the demons leave.
You shake in vain the branch that bears no fruit.
She is beautiful; she has love, understands; she respects herself and others; everyone likes, loves and honours her; she is a goddess.
Expense is bigger than income.
The pain is sometimes preferable to the treatment.
He who lives shall see.
What children hear their parents say by the fireside, they repeat in the highway.
Don't call a man honest just because he never had the chance to steal.
If doctors fail thee, be these three thy doctors--Rest, cheerfulness, and moderate diet.
The only stupid question is the one that is not asked.
Who starts well will finish badly.
People who have not secret agreement are beaten by a single club.
Evil is no human, / but another is weaker than the other.
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.
Even silence speaks.
The ass and his driver do not think alike.
Cunning comes to an end, what remains is folly.
They who love most are least valued.
Ambition never has it's fill.
Put your hand no farther nor your sleeve may reek.
Cast the beam out of your own eye before you try to cast the mote from the eyes of your neighbour.
A fool is always beginning.
While we are the Pope we'll pontificate; who knows if we'll be Pope another time.
If the townspeople are happy, look for the chief.
Blessings of ancestors are greater than those of a living human being.
If destiny does not fit you, fit yourself to destiny.
Another city (town) - another temper.
Don't praise the daylight before it is evening.
Empty barrels and insignificant people always make the most noise.
The earth is man's only friend.
For women the highest state is the married state.
Praise the ford when you have crossed it.
Once you have fallen into the water, you're not scared of water any more.
I shall paint you in your own colours.
Those who don't understand prayer – – let them go to sea.
Three things to fear: a crumbling wall, an angry dog, and a shrew.
Don't think back on someone whose name you forgot, he is probably someone else by now.
The more haste the worse speed.
A nation's treasure is in its scholars.
It is a fair feild where all are dung down.
Who blows his nose too hard makes it bleed.
It always takes a person much longer to tell you what he thinks than what he knows.
Wives must be had, be they good or bad.
Sex is like war, both are exciting but neither informative.
As you teach, you learn.
Flattery sits in the parlour when plain dealing is kicked out of doors.
Jaan throws the hot stone into the sea, Jaak the cool and Mihkel the cold one.
It's a free country.
Once bitten by a snake you feel suspicious even when you see a piece of rope.
Don't eat the calf in the cow's belly.
Joy and sorrow are next door neighbors.
The sin carries its own penance.
A wicked companion invites us all to hell.
Those who are carrying elephants home on their heads, need not use their toes to dig up crickets on the way.
Better a fair pair of heels than a halter.
Don't point your finger into a graveyard or it will drop off.
The names of fools are always written on walls.
Who refuses to submit to justice, must not complain of oppression.
Little sticks kindle a fire, great ones put it out.
Water can wear away even the hardest rock.
If your house is of glass, don't throw rocks at others.
An insult is but a short garment: it reveals the one who wears it.
A dog by your side is better than a brother miles away.
Don't fall before you're pushed.
A poor man would like to have some fun, but he cannot find the right place.
Fair money can cover much that's foul.
You tie the horse at the will of the master.
If one were to remove every smoking wood from a fire and condemn it as bad, one would be killing the fire itself.
You may drink one drink, but the second is from Satan.
A monkey in its mother's eye is like a gazelle.
Nuair a thig air duine thig air uile.
The germans in the stable, the czech in the kitchen and the french in bed.
Lend a false ear to false words.
Being someones right hand.
Kend fouk's nae company.
He who climbs to high is near a fall.
Better be ill spoken of by one before all than by all before one.
Fear less, hope more,
When the wolf's ears appear, his body is not far off.
The journey is the reward.
In the home of the coward they laugh while in the home of the brave they cry.
He is fairest dung when his own wand dings him.
The chilling storm is on the mountains.
A dog's nose and a maid's knee are always cold.
Seize the day." By Horace, Odes I,11,8, to Leuconoe: carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero ("take hold of the day, believing as little as possible in the next"). The verb "carpere" has the literal meaning "to pick, pluck," particularly in reference to the picking of fruits and flowers, and was used figuratively by the Roman poets to mean "to enjoy, use, make use of.
It is better to walk around a bush than fight with a dog.
Do not shoot a glass arrow into a painted deer.
A good name is better than good habits.
An ounce of state to a pound of gold.
He is the sunshine at the edge of the roof.
Birds of a colour flock together.
The teeth often bite the tongue, still the two stay together.
You can't look at the stars while you are walking if you have a stone in your shoe.
Stars are not seen by sunshine.
Learn to paint a tiger and you only paint his skin; learn to know a human being and you only know his face.
Even fleas want to cough.
It is better to make money in the straw market than to lose it in the money market.
When a king has good counselors, his reign is peaceful.
The chamber of sickness is the chapel of devotion.
A man possesses beauty in his quality and a woman possesses quality in her beauty.
The grass may be greener on the other side of the fence but you still have to mow it.
In the birds' court, a cockroach never wins his case.
The lion believes that everyone shares his state of mind.
Let every one be content with what God has given him.
Marry your equal.
Feet that are used to move cannot remain quiet.
It's often a person's mouth broke their nose.
Absence, and a friendly neighbor, washeth away love.
If you are offered a span, do not take a couple of yards.
Perfect love cannot be without equality.
A sound mind in a sound body.
An obstinete child does not suffer save on the day of festival.
Parents who are afraid to put their foot down usually have children who step on their toes.
By others' faults wise men correct their own.
Gifts make their way through stone walls.
He who avoids the temptation avoids the sin.
The bald woman boasts of her sister's hair.
When you are amongst the crows, caw like them.
Literal meaning: Save your white penny for your black day.
A woman's tongue is her sword, and she does not let it rust.
You don't cast a net into a river that has no fish.
Never take to sawin' on the branch that's supportin' you-unless you're bein' hung from it.
When you see the wolf, do not look for his track.
When we cannot get what we love, we must love what is within our reach.
Even ill-natured cows give milk.
Lying is the disease and truth is the cure.
We became gravediggers but nobody dies anymore.
Love your neighbor, yet pull not down your hedge.
Ever one hair, only one, and the man is bald at last.
Work is good provided you do not forget to live.
Distance plants enchantment.
Hunger drives good taste away.
Accident is the mother of invention.
Lang straes are nae mots.
Comparison is not necessarily proof.
Who deceives me once, shame on him; if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
By the street of "By-and-By” one arrives at the house of "Never.”.
From fire to flame.
It is easier to climb down than up.
Who has but one eye must take good care of it.
A dog knows the places he is thrown food.
A loaded wagon creaks; an empty one rattles.
When the cat's away, the rats dance on the table.
A clear conscience is a wall of brass.
Where freedom is, there shall my country be.
Another man's bread will not fill your belly.
True happiness lies in giving it to others.
An ape, a priest, and a louse, are three devils in one house.
One who is free to sin, sins less; the very power weakens the seeds of sin.
Little palm tree, stop crying, you child is the tall palm tree.
The one-eyed is a king among the blind.
A bad wound deserves strong medicine.
Never advise a man to go to the wars, or to marry.
The guard's sleep is the lamplight of the thief.
Whoever has no children has no light in his eyes.
Fat cats and thin birds can share a yard, but thin cats and fat birds no way.
Long lean wakes hameald cattell.
Thunder is not yet rain.
After three years even a disaster can be good for something.
The remembrance of past sorrows is joyful.
Away from home they look at your clothes. At home they look at what is under them.
He who curbs his desires will always be rich enough.
All men are mortal.
Put your hand in your conscience and see if it does not come out as black as pitch.
All cats are grey in the dark.
The old bear falls into the old trap.
Teachers open the door. You enter by yourself.
IF you are buying a cow, make sure that the price of the tail is included.
A mountain doesn't reach out to mountain, a man is reaching out to a man.
Logic is the cement of our civilization, with which we ascend from chaos, using reason as our guide.
A grain does not fill a sieve, but it helps its fellow.
Wives serve, brothers inherit.
I will win the horse, or lose the saddle.
Indulgence breeds regret.
Don't insult midwives as long as you are still able to give birth.
Whoever does not try, does not learn.
He who finds what has not been lost, will chance to die before he is ill.
No reliance can be placed on appearance.
If three people say you are an ass, put on a bridle.
Under his bowl there is a little bowl.
What is seen is seen by all.
If you love him, don't lend him.
It is a man's challenge to go as far as he can on the right road.
One cry of "Thief!" and the whole marketplace is on the lookout.
In prosperity no altars smoke.
An adult is only one who has ceased to grow vertically and started to grow horizontally.
An accident rarely comes alone.
Honor is better than honors.
God take you, pound, drunk out and not yet spun.
Their harms, our arms.
Time is like a sword. If you did not cut it, it will cut you.
You won't help the new plants grow by pulling them up higher.
Often have the likely failed and the unlikely prospered.
Bribery makes both parties happy.
Concealing truth is like wearing embroidered clothes and traveling by night.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over chitterlings is ready for marriage.
The devil looks after his own.
The worm that gnaws on the bean is the one inside the bean.
Only a fool tries to jump in the fire.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the horses have already been stolen.
During the dry season it is better to befriend the owner of the pirogue.
No one likes to eat crumbs from a feast; everyone likes to sit at the table.
The first blow is half the battle.
Better to wear out than rust out.
Do not look where the harvest is plentiful, but where the people are kind.
The devil will tempt Lucifer.
The horse's leg protrudes.
Be happy while you're living, For you're a long time dead.
Knowledge comes through practice.
Covetous men's chests are rich, not they.
It is a sin against hospitality to open the doors and shut up the countenance.
He has stirred up, or threw a stone into, still water.
Promising and performing are two things.
Soap is grey but it used to be white.
The blind man has picked up a coin.
First goblet and then drunkenness.
Do not make a hen out of a feather.
If the hope is lost, it's better to hurry.
Blind belief is dangerous.
The poison for a word is a word.
If you respect others, others will respect you.
Those that rule must hear and be deaf, must see and be blind.
Men in the game are blind to what men looking on see clearly.
One with a scar, do not think him healed.
He removes the baptismal water from somebody.
The one who sits on the ground need not fear a fall.
Whoever wants a good must should hoe the vineyard in August.
To serve our elders is a duty, our equals it is polite, but serving the young is humiliating.
Killing two birds with one stone.
The man in the moon stole the wood.
Two may keep counsel if one be away.
Every ananya has his melania.
Speaking without thinking is shooting without taking aim.
Rain beats a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots.
Use fertilizer to change the course of nature.
A gadding girl is rarely coy.
A hundred male and a hundred female qualities make a perfect human being.
Who goes to catch a partridge will lose a hen.
The person who predicts the future is lying, even when he is right.
Do not hurt your neighbor, for it is not him you wrong but yourself.
The firm tree does not fear the storm.
He who cooks the soup must eat it up himself.
The quarrel of the sheep doesn't concern the goats.
If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all.
Give the priest drink, for the clerk is thirsty.
It is good rowing with the sail set.
A woman is like a blanket.
Fie upon a cloak in fair weather.
If you would be a good judge, hear what every one says.
Travel broadens the mind.
Adjoining houses always burn.
The God who gave us teeth will also give us bread.
Kinsmen are born, but friendship is a gift of the Gods.
The ungrateful son is like a wart on his father's face; to leave it there is unsightly, to cut it off is painful.
The tiger that has once tasted blood is never sated with the taste of it.
Worries go down better with soup than without.
Petty thieves are hanged, you take off your hat to the big ones.
If you are in a boat you are more afraid of fire than you are of water.
There is no law written for fools.
A beautiful flower is incomplete without its leaves.
Use medicine as well as prayers.
You cannot get into Paradise without a guide.
The winter is gone, the spring is come, a fly for those who us good have done.
No matter how big the whale is, a tiny harpoon can kill him.
The heart is the most essential human quality.
In the evening one may praise the day.
A short person touches where he can reach.
The fly that has no one to advise it follows the corpse into the grave.
Without justice, courage is weak.
Whatever the man in authority said, it was not right.
At every door-way, ere one enters, one should spy round.
A wanton eye is the messenger of a lusting heart.
To err is human, to forgive divine.
A false friend's tongue is sharper than a knife.
He that sows the wind shall reap the whirlwind.
Getting married with a woman is nothing; it's assuming the responsibility of marriage that counts.
Of this world each man has as much as he takes.
God wanted to chastise mankind, so he sent lawyers.
A fight between grasshoppers is a joy to the crow.
Better to sit all night than to go to bed with a dragon.
If you cannot catch a fish, do not blame the sea.
The dog that has bitten bites again.
A dog in a kennel barks at his fleas; a dog hunting does not notice them.
Never squat with your spurs on.
The forest provides food to the hunter after they are exhaustingly tired.
The giver makes the gift precious.
He who is not happy with the position of the sun should climb and change it.
Lies are the plague of speech.
Peace is costly but it is worth the expense.
The palm of ones hand does not eclipse the sun.
When reading, don't let a single word escape your attention; one word may be worth a thousand pieces of gold.
Without father – half orphan, without mother – complete orphan.
You cannot avoid what lies in ambush for you.
He who sweats more in peace, bleeds less in war.
The supreme treasure is knowledge, the middle treasure is children, and the lowest treasure is material wealth.
Pass off a fish eye for a pearl.
During sickness, you recognize the value of good health.
Don't be misled by the tears of a beggar.
Guard your tongue in youth, and in age you may mature a thought that will be of service to your people.
Rain falls alike on the just and the unjust.
A marriage in later years sends a letter to the grave digger.
A poor old horse will have a worn out tail.
There's no thief like a bad book.
Where the hostess is handsome the wine is good.
Go further and fare worse.
To tell tales out of school.
He is bad that will not take advice, but he is a thousand times worse that takes every advice.
Only a fool gets drunk from his own bottle.
Don't cross the stream to find water.
Who gets lost in the forest takes it out on who leads him back to the right road.
Every glowworm is not a fire.
He who makes the first bad move always loses the game.
Friends and mules fail us at hard passes.
One scabby goat infects the flock.
Destiny leads the willing but drags the unwilling.
Buying and selling is but winning and losing.
The cook does not have to be a beautiful woman.
No man is a prophet in his own country.
Good manners and plenty of money will make my son a gentlemen.
Princes keep good reckoning, they never lose anything.
While there is life there is hope.
Even a cat appreciates kind word[s].
Of a good beginning cometh a good end.
I beggar is not favoured even by his relations.
Only when a tree has grown can you tie your cow to it.
The beauty of things lies in the mind that contemplates it.
Nothing so bad but it finds its master.
Wherever there is mischief, there is sure to be a priest and a woman in it.
Better an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
He who likes cherries soon learns to climb.
It is not only the hare, the tortoise arrives also at the destination.
Death rights everything.
What the eyes don't see, the heart doesn't believe.
When there are many women, the cabbage will be spoled. The slimming of an elephant and the losses of a rich man are not noticeable.
By going gains the mill, and not by standing still.
Painless poverty is better than embittered wealth.
Who is brave eats two.
He that doth most at once doth least.
A second woman has golden thighs.
Martin H. Manser (2007). The Facts on File Dictionary of Proverbs. Infobase Publishing. p. 80. ISBN 978-0-8160-6673-5. Retrieved on 22 September 2013.
When many shepherds tend the sheep, they but so much the longer sleep.
So many years playing the marquise and she still doesn't know how to wave a fan.
He that is in fault is in suspicion.
A united family eats from the same plate.
Though your mastiff be gentle, do not bite his lip.
The road to the head lies through the heart.
Leave in the daylight, don't leave in the dark.
Where there is no wealth there is no poverty.
Fish and guests smell at three days old.
Your friend's enemy might be your best friend.
Be like the mouth and the hand: when the hand is hurt the mouth blows on it, when the mouth is hurt the hand rubs it.
On poor people's beards the young barber learns his trade.
A thorn, a hound's tooth, a fool's word: these are the three sharpest things.
No one is expected to achieve the impossible.
One cannot go back to the farmer from whom one borrowed seed-yams to plant to say that the beetles have eaten up the seed-yams.
A mouse in pitch.
They talk of my drinking but never my thirst.
A thief has more than two hands.
Children and fools Shouldn't play with edged tools.
Opportunity makes the thief. (13th century)
Children learn to creep ere they can learn to go.
A tilted load won't reach its destination.
Not even dishonesty can tarnish the shine of profit.
Fraud and cunning are the weapons of the weak.
He who fears every bramble should not go to the woods.
What good is a palace if it's inhabited by owls. Better a straw hut inhabited by humans.
I can do nothing about governments and winter.
To die defending his ship is the hope of every klingon.
Who is timid in the woods boasts at home.
Even God cannot make two mountains without a valley in between.
An old man's mouth produces a bad smell but the words that come out of it are sweet.
Shrimp that sleeps is carried by the tide.
Ye seek grace at a gracelesse face.
Time himself is bald. (William Shakespeare)
He that has plenty of good shall have more.
Until the lions have their historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter.
Wisdom is not like money to be tied up and hidden.
The head could not have got to where it is now if it did not give.
Life has always been a mixture of joy and pain, wealth and poverty.
Who gives in need, gives double.
Unless you're the lead sled dog, the view is pretty much the same.
Say no from the start; you will have rest.
An ounce of wit that's bought Is worth a pound that's taught.
When the powerful sit, they are none the weaker.
Easy to believe in heaven's law, but so hard to keep.
He that has swallowed the devil may swallow his horns.
Set a sprat to catch a mackerel.
A mouse may help a lion.
There is nothing better than a rich wife and a generous mother-in-law.
A man may hap to bring home with him what makes him weep.
Where the hedge is low every one will cross it.
A good neighbour is better than a brother far off.
If your neighbor is an early riser, you too will become one.
No time for your health today, will result in no health for your time tomorrow.
A mule and a woman do what is expected of them.
Beware, the enemy lies under your blanket.
Handsome poverty is no disgrace.
Hunger is felt by slave and king alike.
The vine says to the vintager: "make me poor, and I will make you rich.”.
No matter how many house chores you complete, there are always more to be done.
Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning.
Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant.
None so old that he hopes not for a year of life.
After shaking hands with a greek, count your fingers.
The eye is the mirror of the soul.
Those who envy die, but envy stays alive.
He that comes of a hen must scrape.
A wolf's repentance died a long time ago.
Old droppings do not stink.
A man who holds good cards would never say if they were dealt wrong.
As the spokes of a wheel are attached to the hub, so all things are attached to life.
He who lends out his door should be ready for the cold blowing wind.
No partridge scratches the ground in search of food for another.
Cow dung can't be gathered where no cow has been.
Smith and Wesson or a Colt always beat four aces.
First food, then religion.
When fortune's chariot rolls easily, envy and shame cling to the wheels.
A friend advises in his interest, not yours.
Hurry-hurry never done.
When the grandmothers speak, the earth will be healed.
The world is a pot, man but a spoon in it.
Wood can only be split with a wedge that is cut from its own tree.
It went into smoke.
Never whisper to the deaf, or wink at the blind.
No canoe is defiant on a stormy day.
The shepherd of a herd of toads must be very patient with his rod.
Onions, smoke and women bring tears to your eyes.
Night is the mother of counsel.
Children who get everything they ask for seldom succeed in life.
There are hidden purposes behind an act.
Speak little in the company of the old.
The amount of people equals the amount of opinions.
Time is longer than a rope.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead.
Guard your tongue in youth.
He, who buys what he does not need, sells what he needs.
When you are at Rome do as Rome does.
A diplomat must always think twice before he says nothing.
A warrior's blood boils before the fire is hot.
Blaw the wind ne'er so fast, it will lower at last.
For the sake of one good action, a hundred evil ones should be forgotten.
Nobody's family can hang out the sign, "Nothing the matter here.
You shouldn't saw off the branch you're sitting on.
No matter how far you have gone on a wrong road, turn back.
An industrious life is the best security for food in old age.
Little sorrows are loud, great ones silent.
Who goes hunting without dogs, comes home without rabbits.
Something given that way.
Golden dishes will never turn black.
A stammerer would eventually say father.
He who plunders with a little boat is a pirate; he who plunders with a fleet is a conqueror.
He runs as fast as if he had eggs in his shoes.
In spring no one thinks of the snow that fell last year.
Everything may be borne except good fortune.
The law of requital of injury by injury.
Youth lives on hope, old age on remembrance.
Repetition is the mother of study.
Whatever is written on the forehead is always seen.
There's no glory without sacrifice.
Dancing at the carnival, baptizing on all saints day.
The world is a journey, the afterworld is home.
Falsehood is the darkness of faith.
He may swim boldly who is held up by the chin.
When you're in a strange city, adopt its manners.
It is hard to swim against the current.
If my aunt had been a man, she'd have been my uncle.
The pursued runs on four feet, the pursuer on two.
Do you want to buy cheap? Buy of a needy fool.
Earth is like a prison: we all go in through the same door, but we stay in different cells.
The secret of two is God's secret, the secret of three is everybody's secret.
Coffee from the top of the cup and chocolate from the bottom.
It is better to have a husband without love than jealous.
A big fish is caught with big bait.
Man without woman, is head without body; woman without man, is body without head.
He who stores, albeit being hungry, the rat will eat.
The person in a hurry usually arrives late.
My uncle is sick, but the highway is green.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, yet 'twill leave some mark.
The thousand brilliant accomplishments of the past cannot serve today's purpose.
Let not him that has a mouth ask another to blow.
Give me flowers while I live.
Where the woman wears the breeches, she has a good right to them.
Anger is often more hurtful than the injury that caused it.
No man sees his shadow who faces the sun.
Dogs have teeth in all countries.
A bad thing never dies.
The weed of arrogance grows on a dunghill.
If there is a way into the wood there is also a way out of it.
In the word is life, in the word is death.
No day but has its evening.
Eat when the meal is ready, speak when the time is ripe.
When the eagle is dead, the crows pick out his eyes.
The eyes are of little use if the mind be blind.
Many cooks spoil the broth.
Talk the hind legs off a donkey.
If you have to have animals in your house, don't have either a dog or a cat with a red coat.
He who stands high is seen from afar.
Better do a kindness near home than go far to burn incense.
Don't let an angry man wash dishes; don't let a hungry man guard rice.
There's no harm in wine, it's drunkenness that is at fault.
The worse service, the better luck.
He may die of wind but he'll never die of wisdom.
Love thy neighbour, but pull not down thy hedge.
He who lends to the poor get his interest from God.
Between saying and doing there is a great distance.
Surrounding yourself with dwarfs does not make you a giant.
The last benefit is most remembered.
Blame yourself if you have no branches or leaves; don't accuse the sun of partiality.
He who has been stung by a serpent is afraid of a lizard.
There is nothing more telling than wit.
Lies legs are short.
What is gotten over the devil's back is spent under his belly.
Now's now, and yule's in winter.
It is hunger that killed the man with many wives.
Who promises a lot will regret a lot.
No man has a worse friend than he brings from home.
Never tell your story to a deaf man.
He who would go a hundred miles should consider ninety-nine as halfway.
Whatever the tree, so is the fruit.
Everything dear is a woman's fancy.
He who is his own judge never finds a reason to condemn.
He who has got experience can milk a running cow.
Knowing of the hat and the brim.
I thought to cross myself, and I put out my eye.
No matter how much snow falls, it won't remain there all the way till summer.
The wise drunkard is a sober fool.
The cheap things prove to be expensive at the end.
The other fist takes to the hospital and this other takes to the graveyard.
He who wants to go fishing must not be afraid of the water.
It is better to be naked in your place than to be a pasha with strangers.
The shame you can't lift away, you had better let lie.
Swedish iron, hemp of Riga, English tools and fish waters of Kemi and the meadows of Liminka and Russian gold are the best in the world.
You should climb Mount Fujiyama once in your life. Climb it twice and you're a fool.
The sight of books removes sorrow from the heart.
A sense of humor is the pole that adds balance to our steps as we walk the tightrope of life.
He who eats holy bread has to deserve it.
A good name is better than gold.
The heart is like a goat that has to be tied up.
What care is a friend worth? what handling can a chickling take?
You shall never want rope enough.
A malicious man is like a coal sack -- black on the outside and even blacker inside.
Can't have a family fuss without the whole town knowing about it.
A good name shines in the dark.
A paddle here, a paddle there - the canoe stays still.
The first love letters are written with the eyes.
Do not show a stick to a dog that has been beaten.
For smart people, signs can replace words.
A cow without a tail should not try to chase away flies.
Forget the past, but look out in the future.
Ill weeds grows apace.
Make your brain save your heels.
A near neighbour is better than a far-dwelling kinsman.
The sun shines brighter after a shower.
A crow will not pick out the eyes of another crow.
A lemon that grows in ripening, is not agreeable (i.e., does not taste well).
Good words and bad acts deceive both wise and wimple.
Forbear a quarrel with a friend to move: anger breeds hatred; concord sweetens love.
Don't let your mouth accuse him; don't slander him; don't encourage violent retaliation against yourself.
Out of sight, out of heart.
If ill luck were cheese, dairy-women would go wanting work.
They wait three years for what was promised.
If a man's mouth were silent, then another part would speak.
Old friends are the best, but new ones are the most fun.
It's dumb to put snow on the kitchen spit, the snow melts and the fire goes out.
Your tongue rins aye before your wit.
Marriage is a lottery.
A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy.
Life, like a fire, begins in smoke and ends in ashes.
A branch of ‘mutundu' does not hinder the division of a field.
Small people always cast big shadows.
Little by little the measure is filled.
It is well to fly low on account of the branches.
God has spared the naked man from washing his clothes with soap.
Rain before seven, fine before eleven.
With money in your pocket, you are wise, and you are handsome, and you sing well too.
The one who is caught with the skin is the thief.
Everyone conceals his own beam and notices the mote in other people's eyes.
Three things give us hardy strength: sleeping on hairy mattresses, breathing cold air, and eating dry food.
Perhaps you will eat a whole elephant and nothing gets stuck in your throat, and then you eat a fish and a bone gets stuck in your throat.
One can get sick of cake, but never of bread.
If the carriage be not greased, it does not move on.
Even our fingers are not equal.
Don't reckon without your host.
Those who can't dance blame it on the music.
Man is the only mammal that can be skinned more than once.
No matter how dark it is, the hand always knows the way to the mouth.
One cannot sit in two saddles having one arse/bottom only.
As stupid as a pig's behind.
None so blind as those who won't see.
The town is new every day.
A buddha's face when asked three times.
Silence is wisdom and gets a man friends.
Of all the female qualities a warm heart is the most valuable.
Even the night has ears.
A foreign land is a land of wolves.
It is difficult to teach a cow to climb a tree.
Don't give a dog a bad name in order to have an excuse to burn it.
No man is a hero to his debtors.
Where the fence is lowest, everyone jumps over.
A woman has the form of an angel, the heart of a serpent, and the mind of an ass.
A ring on a good woman's finger is no good without a blouse on her back.
Return the dolls clothes.
Eat and drink with your relatives; do business with strangers.
Indecision is like a stepchild: if he does not wash his hands, he is called dirty, if he does, he is wasting water.
There are no women or horses without shortcomings.
The danger that threatens the hunting dog, threatens the hunter too.
Without the shepherd, sheep are not a flock.
Charity and pride have different aims, yet both feed the poor.
All cats love fish but fear to wet their paws.
A prudent wife is from the lord.
He who is ashamed of asking, is ashamed of learning.
Youth spent freely, old age spent in poverty.
Spending is quick, earning is slow.
There is no difference between the thief and the looker-on.
A fox does not smell his own stench.
Whether the egg crashes on the coconut or the coconut crashes on the egg, it is the egg that suffers.
None so keen at the hunting of wolves as the dog with wolf blood.
Bitter fruit will fall before the ripe.
A poor person is often worthy.
Give a traitor good words and you make him loyal.
Short acquaintance brings repentance.
More flies mean more food.
Don't think to hunt two hares with one hound.
The voice of the frog is the glory of the marsh waters.
To a depraved taste sweet is bitter.
A stealing dog strengthens its back.
A nobleman's calf does not know how a butcher kills.
The hen scratches and the chicken learns.
If you buy cheap meat, you'll smell what you have saved when it boils.
A good friend is worth more than a bad brother.
Never approach a goat from the front, a horse from behind, and a fool from either side.
The toad likes water, but not when it's boiling.
He who wants his dog killed has only to say he's mad.
Rest is the best medicine.
It takes nine months to have a baby, no matter how many people you put on the job.
A crow does not pick out the crow's eye.
Always hold a true friend with both of your hands.
I prostrate myself for the sake of Gula, my lady, but in my own eyes I don't have a place to stand.
Would you have potatoes grow by the pot-side?
Bright enough in the dark, dull in time of day.
There's no getting to heaven in a coach.
When the right hand washes the left hand and the left hand washes the right hand, both hands become clean.
Friendly words are convincing.
Who does not venture gets neither horse nor mule, and who ventures too much lose horse and mule.
Known by three; known by the king.
They have sowed the seed of the word "tomorrow” and it has not germinated.
A thousand workers, a thousand plans.
Empty hands only please their owner.
The turtle underestimates the value of fast feet.
Better to ask the way than to go astray.
Daylight sho t'rough lilly keyhole.
War is good for business.
The poison of asps is under their lips.
A river is not contaminated by having a dog drink from it.
A dog will not follow its owner to follow a king.
When I have money in my purse, I have food in my mouth.
The ape does not see his own backside, he Sees his companion's.
If you kill time, you'll bury opportunities.
There is a good time coming.
Do not spit into a well-it may be useful to drink water.
A dove has no place amongst the crows.
Ye'll no sell your hen in a rainy day.
Success is a ladder that cannot be climbed with your hands in your pockets.
Forgiveness is a pillar of justice.
Even a fool, when he holds his peace, is counted wise.
The apple falls on the head that's under it.
An arrow can be pulled out of a wound, but a hurtful word stays forever in your heart.
The Russians think that life without booze is the same like not living at all.
Na man can both sup and blow together.
Youth and age will never agree.
It is worse to be sick in the soul than in body.
A fox should not be of the jury at a goose's trial.
The man and his woman is like the grave and its dead.
Pin not your faith on another's sleeve.
Choose him for a friend who incites you to good works.
Any man who owns a cow can always find a woman to milk her.
Beer before liquor, you'll never be sicker, but liquor before beer and you're in the clear.
All ask if a man be rich, no one if he be good.
It never hurts to suck up to the boss.
There is a fool at every feast.
Leave the bad tale where you found it.
A slave has no choice.
Jack will never make a gentleman.
If everyone swept in front of his house, the whole town would be clean.
Cultivate the garden within.
Make no headache of what is not your business.
Make haste with leisure.
All saint without, all devil within.
Like priest, like church.
Enjoy breakfast all alone, share lunch with your best friend and give dinner to your enemy.
Keep adding little by little and you will soon have a big hoard.
One who gets up early is doubly lucky.
If you were born to be shot, you'll never be hung.
Take heed of an ox before, an ass behind, and a monk on all sides.
Every evil comes to us on wings and goes away limping.
Without treasure, without friends.
Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?
There's no hurry, said the shoemaker, he had gruel with his awl.
If you chase two rabbits you will catch none.
Two small antelopes can beat a big one.
He who works begins well; he who economises ends better.
Nane can mak a bore but ye'll find a pin for't.
The grasshopper flies about, but the kingfisher watches him.
If you want to know someone's character, look at the friends he keeps.
Hunger eats through stone walls.
A mouse will scare a thief.
Even a hare will bite when it is cornered.
A liar is forgetful.
If you want an audience, start a fight.
Bend the willow while it is young.
The heart has reasons that reason does not understand.
The devil tempts all, but the idle man tempts the devil.
The frog likes water but not when it's boiling.
He who rides a camel should not be afraid of dogs.
Went to get wool, but returned bald.
When traveling do not calculate the distance, at dinner don't think of how much.
A few germs never hurt anyone.
If you have never done anything evil, you should not be worrying about devils knocking at your door.
Nobody knows the mysteries which lie at the bottom of the ocean..
Don't throw away your dirty water till you have got clean.
When the music changes, so does the dance.
A blind man's wife needs no paint.
He must be pure who would blame another.
He who will not climb will not fall.
War gives no opportunity for repeating a mistake.
Stolen house, locks on the door.
Need makes Virtue.
When the sack is full, it pricks up its ears.
One hand can't hold two watermelons.
Avarice is never satisfied.
Nights of pleasure are short.
He is as easily caught as a hare with drums.
Ill-luck upon ill-luck, and a stone for a pillow.
In an ant colony, the dew is a flood.
Illness is the steelyard of friendship.
Think before acting and whilst acting still think.
He who cries today that he has no bread will cry again tomorrow because he isn't hungry.
The carpenter's wife has no batler, the smith's wife has no hatchet.
God helps those who help themselves.
He who doesn't risk a penny doesn't make a peso.
Where you won't feast from, you sense it sooner than later.
Like lips, like lettuce.
He who digs a pit will fall into it himself.
Who insists on running up a slope, is confused and crazy.
Good customers are as rare as latinum – treasure them.
In a place where there is will, there is a road.
He who forgets his past is lost.
Pity is akin to love.
No man ever wore a scarf as warm as his daughter's arm around his neck.
He that is good for something is the ass of the public.
Passing the Rubicon.
My daughter-in-law tucked up her sleeves, and upset the kettle into the fire.
Do not rear a bird of a bad breed.
Be deligent when there's time.
What does the moon care if the dogs bay at her?
A hawk kills because it is his nature; a man because it is his pleasure.
Beauty is but a blossom.
Ends and beginnings are identical.
A razor may be sharper than an ax, but it cannot cut wood.
What costs little is little esteemed.
A coward is full of precaution.
Daylight follows a dark night.
In the countryside eat cardoon, because at the castle you'll eat pigeon.
The child looks everywhere and often sees nought, the old man.
Do something at its (right) time, and peace will accompany it.
No matter how tall a tree might grow it will always shed its leaves on the ground.
The world does not make promises to anybody.
Were fools silent, they would pass for wise.
A golden hammer breaks an iron gate.
It is as bad to spit out the fire and be shamed, as it is to swallow it and be burnt.
There is no lock, if the pick is of gold.
Poor people can change and succeed.
A gossiping woman talks of everybody, and everybody of her.
Flattery will get you nowhere.
He is like the gardener's dog, who don't eat cabbage and will let no one else eat them.
True nobility is invulnerable.
There is no way to teach a machine wisdom after folly.
The thread must be longer than the needle.
He buys very dear who begs.
We must live by the living, not by the dead.
The counsel thou wouldst have another keep, first keep it thyself.
Women, priests, and poultry, never have enough.
If a person who curses another is not better than the person he curses, a request is never made of him to rescind the curse.
The barking dog gives you no power -- it gives you fear.
A child is a child of everyone.
He is in search of a ram with five feet.
Manage with bread and salted butter until God brings something to eat with it.
Let's live helping each other in this world.
When the screech-owl sings, you can try to go to work for someone else if you're working for a bad owner.
Phoenix feather and unicorn horns.
A girl, a vineyard and a bean field are difficult to guard.
Better the certainty of the straddle than the mere loan of a saddle.
Wickedness and malice only require an opportunity.
It is good to be priest at Easter, child in Lent, peasant at Christmas, and foal in harvest-time.
It is bad to have a servant, but worse to have a master.
He who is present at a wrongdoing and does not lift a hand to prevent it is guilty.
He who can follow his own will is a king.
It has stuck fast by one of the front legs.
A goose doesn't befriend a pig.
Quickly dear and soon forgotten.
Don't put your trust in Fortune until you are in heaven.
The coming of nkele.
It is easy for the single guy to divorce his wife.
A closed mouth gathers no boots.
The cask full, the mother-in-law drunk.
Faint praise is akin to abuse.
A round egg can be made square according to how you cut it; words would be harsh according to how you speak them.
United we are a rock, divided we are sand.
A dog that has once tasted the flesh cannot be kept from the skin.
An infidel who does you good turn is not like a Muslim who does not.
I gave so much advice that hair grew on my tongue.
He who works by himself does the work of three people.
A man in a passion rides a horse that runs away with him.
When a dog runs away, hit him! hit him!
Two things that go for loss-turf on a mountain and the wisdom of a poor man.
Needle and thread are half clothing.
If the ball does not stick to the wall, it will at least leave a mark.
My drum doesn't do what I want it to.
There are three tough men: fire, iron and water.
He fills one hole with another.
Who arrays himself in other men's garments is stripped on the highway.
Truth makes the tongue smart.
An elephant in the china shop.
He who puts up with insult invites injury.
They couldn't find any reason to criticize the roses, so they complained that they were red.
Until the old moon disappears completely, the new moon can not come.
There is thick sandal leather on his face.
He who doesn't listen to advise from others goes to his parents in-law smeared with faeces.
Patience is the mother of all wisdom.
A careful hyena lives a long time.
An old wolf is not scared by loud cries.
Much meat, much maladies.
Be sure to have a controversial opinion, and men will talk about you.
Poverty runs after the poor, wealth after the rich.
A hair of the dog cures the bite.
There is a time when nothing should be said, there is a time when some things may be said. but there is indeed no time in which everything can be said.
Do you say something or is the wind wiggling your lips?
Once the rice is pudding, it's too late to reclaim the rice.
Better to be envied than pitied.
Fortune will call at the smiling gate.
Can the monkey know the taste of ginger?
Those who want to share the gains, shall also share the losses.
Everyone puts his fault on the times.
Cuss-cuss noh bore hole a mi skin.
Swimming is easy if someone holds your head above water.
To go rabbit hunting with a dead ferret.
The butcher should not be trusted that has missing neighbors.
"great cry and little wool,” said the fool, when he sheared a pig.
The misfortune of many is a consolation.
A single day grants what a whole hear denies.
Hunger is felt by a slave and hunger is felt by a king.
If something can go wrong, it will.
One ass scrubs another.
One lamp can't light two houses.
Mothers-in-law are fine so long as they are deaf and blind.
Imagination gallops, judgment merely walks.
If the patient dies, the doctor has killed him, but if he gets well, the saints have saved him.
The good time comes but once.
If you don't stand for something, you will fall for something.
The is worthy of sweets, who has tasted bitters.
If you are going to fall it's muddy everywhere.
Keeping an eye on the sail.
The owl has one note, the crow another.
There is no luck except where there is discipline.
A stick in the eye to the one who keeps on looking back old happenings.
What makes us discontented with our condition is the absurdly exaggerated idea we have of the happiness of others.
You don't punish a fish by throwing it in water.
You are permitted in times of great danger to walk with the devil until you have crossed the bridge.
To seek a woman to the belly.
Life is a gift for which we pay dearly.
First catch your hare.
The hypocrite is known by his actions, not by his clothes.
They who sing through the summer must dance in the winter.
Lovers do not hide their nakedness.
The dupe who takes possession of a lame ox is seldom recognized as a fool.
One-eye man a king a blind country.
Might knows no right.
Have but few friends though much acquaintance.
Light come, light go.
Fast Ripe, Fast Rotten.
Little and often makes a heap in time.
Better a sparrow today than a bustard tomorrow.
Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out.
Better reap two days too soon than one too late.
The old saints are forgotten in the new.
If stars were loaves, many people would sleep out.
Blind men shoulna be judge o' colours.
The covetous person is always in want.
A mule can swim seven different strokes but the moment he sees the water he forgets them all.
A bad labour, and a daughter after all.
In this world generous people have no money and those with money are not generous.
Empty vessels make the greatest sound.
A blind man sat behind a pile of stones and thought that nobody could see him.
Consider the past and you shall know the future.
You can't have meat without the bone.
The fierce ox becomes tame on strange ground.
Never refuse a good offer.
Friendship with a fool may turn into the hug of a bear .
Every man is the son of his own works.
A dispute can only be resolved by discussing the problem openly and coolly.
The best answer comes from the man who isn't angry.
A fallen blossom never returns to the branch.
The world is a round gulf, and he who cannot swim must go to the bottom.
The most beautiful laughter comes from the mouth of a mourner.
Husband, you are a cuckold; wife, who told you so?
Narrow gathered, widely spent.
A miser is ever in want.
The slave must be content with the joys of his master.
What is permitted us we least desire.
Ye breed of the Millers dog, ye lick your lips ere the poke be open.
The wife carries the husband on her face; the husband carries the wife on his clothes.
the cure for fate is patience.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Take care of your pennies and your pounds will take care of your heirs and barristers.
If youth had the volition and if old age had the ability.
Berry by berry, a basket will be full.
The blind say that eyes have no sense of smell.
It is the boast of every juju priest that unless he dies.
Tobacco hic,/ Will make a man well if he be sick.
There may be deep bottoms in still waters.
The gift of the king is the nobility of the exalted; the gift of the king is the favor of governors.
Fresh pork and new wine kill a man before his time.
Praise gets closer than blame.
Early bird hops further.
The tree in the middle of the road is shaken by everyone.
A moth will eat the finest linen.
He that touched pitch will be defiled.
An egg is an egg, said the boor, and took the goose's egg.
Deeds are love, and not sweet words.
It's the nature that draws the woodpecker's fledgling to the tree.
A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam.
Saying "halva-halva" won't make your mouth sweet.
The heart is no traitor.
The bigger the smile, the sharper the knife.
The sword and the ring according to the hand that bears them.
A boys best friend is his mother and there's no spancel stronger than her apron string.
Bad news has wings.
A mud hut cannot withstand great shocks.
Woe to the house where the hen crows and the rooster is still.
Enough is enough and sometimes plenty.
Promises don't fill the belly.
The teeth that stink together are the ones to bite the meat.
Wine from a pot is better than water from a well.
The first step is usually the hardest.
If you want to know secrets, seek for them in trouble or in pleasure.
The mouth and the purse, shut.
It is better if you could say "Here he ran away” than "Here he was killed.”.
He who wants to eat honey should endure the stings.
The insane are told they're right.
An ass in Germany is a professor in Rome.
He who has once invited the devil into his house, will never be rid of him.
If it weren't for sorrow and bad times, every day would be christmas.
Want is the whetstone of wit.
Fool hast is no speed.
There is no nice bird in the millet.
Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.
Anger is a short madeness.
Without pains no gains.
There are three things from which no good can be got without a beating: a walnut-tree, a donkey, and a shrew.
The wise benefit more from their enemies than fools from their friends.
True nobility is in being superior to your previous self.
Of war all can tattle, away from the battle.
It's easier to catch a liar than a limping person.
The Meek lamb sucks from two mothers.
The desire is the father of the thought.
A bee is always behind the flower.
A wise man adapts himself to circumstances as water shapes itself according to the vessel that contains it.
Clapping with the right hand only will not make a noise.
Weaving a net is better than praying for fish at the edge of the water.
Each head, a different judgement.
He goes beyond the bounds.
The fish rots from the head.
You lend light to the sun.
He that is too secure is not safe.
if you're a liar, then have a good memory.
The sleeping fox catches no poultry.
When the tide of misfortune moves over you, even jelly will break your teeth.
I ate honey in my childhood, and its sweetness is still in my tooth.
By the owner, the dog is respected.
A woman like a pig, a sleepy-headed woman.
A fool has few friends.
Marry me forthwith, mother, for my face is growing wrinkled.
Even though the elephant is huge enough it cannot carry a big tail.
It will last out our time; if after us no grass grows, what does it matter to us?
To the white horse the zebra said: 'i am white too,' and to the black horse: 'i am really black.'
Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst.
A dog in a kennel barks at his fleas -- a hunting dog does not feel them.
You cannot reason with a hungry belly; it has no ears.
He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at others.
Little by little, the camel goes into the couscous.
A baptised jew is a circumcised christian.
Who cleans up the dirt washes away happiness.
If you have nothing else to offer me, offer me your smile.
Every shop has its trick.
Industry keeps the body healthy, . . . and the purse full.
It is profound ignorance that inspires the dogmatic tone.
At death's door a man will beg for the fever.
When the devil finds the door shut he goes away.
Shoemakers go to mass and pray that sheep may die.
Every man has a fool up his sleeve.
Success to you! God speed the craft! as the hangman said to the judge.
Bathe early every day and sickness will avoid you.
Truth needs not the ornament of many words.
‘Tis as necessary to him as gold weights are to a beggar.
He who steals an egg will steal an ox.
He refused to carry on in a leading position.
One never wept but another laughed.
Marriages sealed with rings end with drawn knives.
Keeping a woman to her word is like trying to hold an eel by its tail.
You don't have to climb the palm wine tree to drink palm wine.
Don't blow your own trumpet.
A woman's in pain, a woman's in woe, a woman is ill, when she likes to be so.
Noble deeds are done in silence.
He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has every thing.
In the snare laid for others is your foot taken.
A young angel, an old devil.
A governor may commit arson while the governed are not allowed to light a lamp.
If they don't exchange a few words, father and son will never know one another.
It is good fishing in troubled waters.
A woman, a dog, and a walnut tree, the more you beat them the better they be.
Sow thin and mow thin.
God gives his anger by weight, but his pity without measure.
Don't imitate the fly before you have wings.
He that commits a fault thinks everyone speaks of it.
When two paupers get married it is the beginning of a generation of beggars.
Children's bread is hard to chew.
You never get tired of working for yourself.
Not so much that it burns the saint, nor so little that it doesn't illuminate him.
You stored your milk in a straining metal... And now you are complaining about bad luck?
My friends are like stars, pick one and it'll guide you.
No revenge is more honourable than the one not taken.
What one won't eat by itself, one will eat when mixed with other food.
Bashfulness is an enemy to poverty.
Never find fault with the absent.
Compare your grieves with other men's and they will seem less.
The heaviest baggage for a traveller is an empty purse.
One pound of learning requires ten pounds of common sense to apply it.
The eye looking at the sun will not need an adviser before it blinks.
Act aggressive and you will be feared.
Whom the lord loveth, he chasteneth.
A village united in fraternity is prosperous.
An ass does not appreciate fruit compote.
The sun cannot be covered by a net.
Money has no smell.
Along in counsel, alone in sorrow.
Measure thrice what thou buyest; and cut it but once.
When the food is cooked there is no need to wait before eating it.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about.
Truth came to market but could not be sold; however, we buy lies with ready cash.
If your time ain't come not even a doctor can kill you.
A good kid goat comes from a young goat and a good lamb from a strong sheep.
What's one man's meat's another man's poison.
He whose heart is aroused by love will never die.
The peasant sweats and the nobleman is always right.
Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it.
Better to risk a little than to lose the whole.
Walk lightly in the spring; mother earth is pregnant.
A shepherd does not strike his sheep.
It's best to search while the trail is new.
There they stared each other like the cats of Mustamäki waiting for the fish soup.
Much water will flow in the danube until then.
A drop of sweat spent in a drill is a drop of blood saved in a battle.
Better an ounce of happiness than a pound of gold.
"if you have no money, turn placeman!” as the court fool said to his sovereign.
Cheese from the ewe, milk from the goat, butter from the cow.
Either remain quiet, or say things that improve the silence.
Better do it than wish it done.
A neglected duty may returns tomorrow with seven others at its back.
When fire is applied to a stone it cracks.
The fire you kindle for your enemy often burns yourself more than him.
A dealer in onions is a good judge of scallions.
Fortune is like women: loves youth and is fickle.
A tattler is war than a thief.
New lords, new laws.
Stay where there are songs.
In the long run, the greyhound kills the hare.
If power is for sale, sell your mother to buy it. You can always buy her back again.
Who wives for a dower, resigns his own power.
An acre of performance is worth the whole world of promise.
Every one thinks his own a falcon.
An ass is but an ass, though laden with gold.
Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork.
She hangs out the broom.
He shows the whiteness of his teeth.
Little things attract light minds.
We will fly that hawk when his pinions are grown.
Every pot will find its lid.
No matter how full the river, it still wants to swell more.
Between two cowards, the first to detect the other has the advantage.
A snowy year, means a good year for grain.
Give him an inch, he'll take an ell.
A live dog is better than a dead lion.
Snakes follow the way of serpents.
Love is sometimes difficult but death even more so.
He wants to learn how to shave using my beard.
Laziness goes so slowly that poverty overtakes it.
Scattering is easier than gathering.
When you argue with a fool, make sure he is not doing the same.
The fear keeps your house poor.
The lion had need of the mouse.
Patience over wins a lot of ill.
If you engage in a business you don't understand, your money will fly away.
Faults and virtues are but two sides of the same coin.
Pleasure is the greatest incentive to vice.
The plum tree, dwindling, contains less of the spring But the garden is wider, and holds more of the moon.
No prepotent man will insult other people for two consecutive seasons.
A watched kettle never boils.
He is so wise, that he goes upon the ice three days before it freezes.
Out of a little grass comes a great ass.
It's a long river whose head can't be found.
Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow your wife may come home.
God save me from my friends; my enemies I can handle myself.
The most fragrant of flowers are eaten by the green-fly.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death; Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the Devil.
There's no point in whistling at an ox who doesn't want to drink.
New doctor, new churchyard.
Greatness and beauty do not belong to the Gods alone.
He that fights for a ne'er-do-well has nothing to show for it except a head covered in earth and grime.
An autumn day feeds a whole winter.
One who has been bitten by a snake, when he sees grass he he gets afraid.
He has sold the sun to buy a candle.
If you want to watch, you'd better keep quiet.
Action is worry's worst enemy.
All are not saints who go to church.
The eye is never satiated with seeing.
Who seeks shame will find shame.
The gods do not deduct from marls allotted span the hours spent fishing.
Write on one of the devil's horns, "Good angel,” and many will believe it.
Eggplants do not grow on melon vines.
The earth does not shake when the flea coughs.
He suffers from the same disease.
Set a cow to catch a hare.
Muddied water does not reflect.
Goose, gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing. (Strauss, 1994 p. 104)
National customs are national honours.
The point of the needle must pass first.
Even in the worst of times someone turns a profit.
The head of a monkey, the headdress of a prince.
It's ill waiting for dead men's shoes.
My fist is in his mouth, his fist is in my eye.
Three years will eradicate even murderous thoughts.
There's nothing more dangerous than an honest business man.
Because of John hating St. John.
A good fire makes a quick cook.
If you can't live longer, live deeper.
Hunger gives a relish even to raw beans.
In time of sickness man is ever on his best behaviour.
Trouble don't set up like rain.
There's only one pretty child in the world, and every mother has it.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance,
He makes idle boasting.
It is always a pleasure to greet a friend from afar.
Whatever nourished the goat until it grew a beard will continue to sustain him.
As the call, so the echo.
The macaco doesn't climb up the acacia tree two times.
To spread the news is to multiply it.
The quickest way to double your money is to fold it over and put it back in your pocket.
Argus at home, a mole abroad.
The good die young.
It is not enough to aim, you must hit.
Disappointment hurts more than pain.
A rolling stone gathers no moss, but it gets a great shine.
Visits always give pleasure; if not the arrival, the departure.
Money alone can't make one happy.
We may give advice, but we cannot give conduct.
Mint, ere ye strike.
He looks one way and rows another.
In the world of books, the mind-set of the reader is of great importance.
A good handicraft has a golden foundation.
They called him mad and he went mad completely.
A man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still.
You've made bed, and now you'll have to lie in it.
Men are as old as they feel, women as old as they look.
Wine is old men's milk.
Even a dog will not eat a leg without flesh.
Man grows up, felt wears out.
Reading makes a full man, meditation a profound man, discourse a clear man.
Your brother's pocket cannot keep your wealth.
Any home not built for hot days or rains is not a home.
The ox spoke and said "Moo."
Money is better than my lord's letter.
It is ill fishing before the net.
When death knocks at your door, you must answer.
First mend yourself, and then mend others.
Nobody calls another's father 'dad'.
He who does not fart lets out silent ones.
A guest is like rain: when he lingers on, he becomes a nuisance.
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.
It is sweet and meritorious to die for one's country.
It is an ill turn that does no good to any one.
They say, is a liar.
Before you let your voice be heard, first lick your lips.
The person to whom things are brought does not know the length of the road.
The fast faggot is not easily broken.
One must talk little and listen much.
Old thanks cannot be used for new gifts.
It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog.
A postponement till morning A postponement for ever.
Better keep now than seek anon.
Would you take water to the frog?
One would rather be bitten by wolves than by sheep.
Men don't build on strange ground.
Breed up a crowand he will tear out your eyes.
One ounce of good luck is better than a ton of brains.
The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago.
Parrots are green everywhere; the idiot loses wherever he is.
If you find your own house is on fire, you may be sure that your neighbour's house is burning much more fiercely.
The boat sails by, the shore remains.
An ape's an ape, though he wear a gold ring.
Barking dogs don't catch hares.
Pick your wife in the kitchen.
We must bear our cross with patience, said the man when he took his wife on his back.
When someone offends you, you haven't given him enough love.
The death of a friend is equivalent to the loss of a limb.
Pride that dined with vanity supped with poverty.
Adversity is the touchstone of virtue.
When force is imposed, the law is a joke.
A good wife and a wholesome cabbage soup, what more could you want?
It keeps his nose at the grindstane.
There is water in the jug, and we're going around thirsty.
We let him in, he brought his donkey along.
Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back or a fool from any side.
A shrew gets her wish but suffers in the getting.
Once a gentleman, always a gentleman. (Charles Dickens)
When fools pipe, he may dance.
In war, hunting, and love, for one pleasure a hundred pains.
Raise ravens and they will peck our your eye.
Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever.
Children of the same mother do not always agree.
Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety nine percent perspiration.
The scoffer's own house is often on fire.
If there were no cold Friday evenings and boring Saturdays, no one would get married any more.
If charity cost nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists.
Sit on the bank of a river and wait: Your enemy's corpse will soon float by.
No hang you clothes all pon one nail.
Revenge is a dish that tastes better cold.
The yew tree exists three hundred years: first green, then dry, then gone.
Loving one that does not love you, is a fruitless race.
If a man makes soup of his tears, ask him not for broth.
The winter does not go without looking backward.
If the rich could hire someone else to die for them, the poor would make a wonderful living. .
Many families are built on laughter.
Give the Goddess her due, even when her due is grief.
The wise man forgets insults as the ungrateful forget benefits.
No need to plough and sow madmen, they grow by themselves.
Change seeds taking them from different calabashes.
If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely.
One ill weed mars a whole pot of pottage.
When men are friendly the water is sweet.
It is a wise man who lives with money in the bank, it is a fool who dies that way.
Nobody returns where he got his finger bitten,.
You can get used to anything-even hell.
Claim to virginity, after seven moppets!
He that speaks truth must have one foot in the stirrup.
A usurer, a miller, a banker, and a publican, are the four evangelists of Lucifer.
Only with a new ruler do you realize the value of the old.
Who comes seldom, is welcome.
You don't kill a gypsy by cutting him in ten pieces -- you only make ten more gypsies.
Who waits for a heritage may have to wait long.
Success in life largely depends on how you handle your failures.
You don't shit where you eat.
No man is a good physician who has never been sick.
If he steal not my kail, break not my dike.
Sleep is better than medicine.
Never trust your friend with a secret unless he is mute or a dog.
The francolin's voice is the glory of the fields.
When the Czar has a cold all Russia coughs.
Big fish are worth of fishing even if you don't catch one.
To be proud of knowledge is to be blind with light.
Consult with your pillow.
A chameleon does not leave one tree until he is sure of another.
An unasked for excuse infers transgression.
One should punish a child the first time he comes home with a stolen egg. Otherwise, the day he returns home with a stolen ox, it will be too late.
Work is the medicine for poverty.
There is no virtue in a promise unless it be kept.
Cats that wear gloves catch no mice.
The madness of one makes many mad.
An imaginary sickness is worse than a real one.
The real world is a special case.
The heart does not think all the mouth says.
For news of the heart, ask the face.
There is nothing sharper than a woman's tongue.
From the frying pan into the fire.
Even an owl is a judge in her cave.
Hunger brings people down, but pride can help them get up.
Happiness comes happiness leaves.
If you talk to an official you must talk rubles.
A ragged coat finds little credit.
Knowledge is like a garden: If it is not cultivated, it cannot be harvested.
Making a thousand decisions, even the wise will make a mistake.
A long dress makes a lady.
Marry a mountain woman and you will marry the mountain.
A cow is not oppressed by its own hump.
Confidence is the companion of success.
Don't tell your secret even to a fence.
He that fears danger in time seldom feels it.
Sloth is the key to poverty.
The life of the land is the life of the people.
He that eats till he is sick must fast till he is well.
One does not always hit what one aims at.
Don't let the bastards grind you down.
Love and eggs are best when they are fresh.
A fortune-teller would never be unhappy.
He that never rode never fell.
It's fair that he who tried to steal yours, loses his.
Death to the wolf is life to the lamb.
Examine what is said, not him who speaks.
Old age is a hundred disorders.
Beware of women with beards and men without beards.
Find as much love as was given by your father and mother many times.
The fall of a dead leaf is a warning to the green ones.
Three makes a company.
There is no little enemy.
Don't call the alligator a big-mouth till you have crossed the river.
A good thing is known when it is lost.
When the crane attempts to dance with the house she gets broken bones.
False in one respect, never trustworthy.
One dog yelping at nothing will set ten thousand straining at their collars.
Crumb not your bread before you taste your porridge.
I thank myself 'cause the others won't do it.
Don't count what they get - they count what they don't get.
The reputation of a man is like his shadow; it sometimes follows and sometimes precedes him, it is sometimes longer and sometimes shorter than his natural size.
A soft answer calms the wrath.
A stranger nearby is better than a far-away relative.
It is a cart if it goes well, otherwise it is but timber.
Better an ugly duckling from your own village than a beauty from foreign parts.
He who sows the wind harvests the storm.
Little grain have I collected from a mass of chaff.
How much do we resemble that filthy brute the ape.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
Copying everybody else all the time, the monkey one day cut his throat.
Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
From the word of an elder is derived a bone.
Life is just a bowl of cherries.
My shirt is closer to me than my cloak.
Barefit fowk shouldnae tread on thorns.
Fair play's a jewel.
Stars are not seen where the sun shines.
Your lord's rent or your child's life.
If work were good for you, the rich would leave none for the poor.
Girls will be girls.
Throw out a brick to attract a jade.
Corporations have neither bodies to be punished nor souls to be damned.
The opportunity that God sends does not wake up him who is asleep.
The smaller the cabin the wider the door.
There are two great pleasures in gambling: that of winning and that of losing.
We will stay longer dead than poor.
Don't slaughter more pigs than you can salt.
Bad road and lazy horse.
He that has good legs, has often bad boots.
Who kisses the feet of his mother, kisses the step of Paradise.
A bird in the hand is worth more than ten in the bush.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
A tree is known by its fruit.
With nice appearance people want to be deceived.
A fall into a ditch makes you wiser.
He who knows nothing knows enough, if he knows how to be silent.
May you have a lawsuit in which you know you are in the right.
Pay in like coin.
Never did capon love a hen.
Women can keep only one secret - their own.
There are three things that refresh the heart and reduce grief.
Seat the pig at the table - she'll put [her] legs on the table.
Attitudes don't prove anyhing.
Soon found soon lost.
All too good is every man's fool.
One eye is a better witness than two ears.
The ink of the scholar is more precious than the blood of martyrs.
When a dog ages, the fox pees on it.
They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow.
The truth shall set you free, or The truth will set you free.
To find your place in life is easier than to occupy it.
The leopard does not change his spots.
It's useless to tell the lame to run.
Truthful words are seldom pleasant.
Open your purse, and I will open my mouth.
the curse of the fowl does not bother the kite.
No wisdom to silence.
To resist with hand and tooth.
The dream of cats is all mice.
Do not insult the crocodile until you've crossed the river.
Keep your sickness until friday and don't fast.
A person who is being carried to the market does not realize that the way is long.
The first occasion offered quickly take, lest thou repine at what thou didst forsake.
He that has no ill luck grows weary of good luck.
Luck is the friend of jackasses and the crazy; it's a mortal enemy of the virtuous.
Morn with her rosy locks dispels the shades of night, and the sun puts to flight the stars, lighting up the world.
Today I am a warrior.
Opinions are like nails: the more often you hit them the deeper they penetrate.
Self-praise stinks, friends praise hinks, the stranger's is sincere, and may last for a year.
He that has a white horse and a fair wife need never want for trouble.
The shortcut to food but the long way to work.
The moon and the stars are not above us, the earth is on the other side of our feet.
All Houndlesse man comes to the best Hunting.
The miracle is not to fly in the air, or to walk on the water, but to walk on the earth.
It is in minne fûgel dy't syn eigen nêst besmoarget.
Cheap meat never makes a good soup.
Summer will not last for ever.
Nevertheless, it moves.
If you would have the dog follow you, give him bread.
Easy to keep the castle that was never besieged.
Meaning: Having done something wrong for the first time, you are afraid/do not want to do it again.
A hare is like an ass in the length of its ears, yet it is not its son.
With fowls, the pedigree; with men, breeding.
They have buried the hatchet.
Excess in anything becomes a vice.
A penny saved is a penny gained.
Had the pheasant not screamed, it wouldn't have been shot.
A friendly word is better than a heavy cake.
For the last-comer the bones.
Drive not away what never came near you.
A liar is not believed even if he tells the truth.
For a good companion good company.
He that fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
Rome and pavia weren't built in a day.
Great things can best be said in silence.
When the feed box is empty, the horses bite each other.
Neither handsome enough to kill, nor ugly enough to frighten.
Think like a winner and you will be one.
The last comer shuts the door.
He who helps everybody, helps nobody.
Gamblers do not contribute to the public welfare.
You'll regret in vain when you scorn good advice.
One good word puts out the flames better than a bucket of water.
Waiting for a rabbit to hit upon a tree and be killed in order to catch it.
Never cast a clout till May be out.
Like feathers, words are blown away by the wind.
A harvest of peace grows from seeds of contentment.
Grandma gave a dinar to dance, and two to stop.
A fox is not caught twice in the same snare.
When the palm nuts ripen, you carry half and I carry half.
Hang your knapsack where you can reach it.
He who was presented with an ox must give in return a horse.
Roast pigeons don't fly through the air.
Beginning cruel end good.
No need to say "trot” to a good horse.
A day without wine is like a day without sunshine.
That priest is a fool who decries his relics.
Proverbs are the golden words.
If you prune in March you're either a jackass or crazy.
If you are digging a pit for your enemy, don't make it too deep, for you may fall into it.
A woman's tongue is longer than her hair.
Deceive me about the price but not about the goods.
Politeness is what warmth is to wax.
He who cannot keep silence cannot speak.
The crab instructs its young: "Walk straight ahead - like me.”.
My chicken is good, but my neighbor's looks better.
Flourish like a flower, but may your life be longer.
Advice is not compulsion.
A great fortune is a great servitude.
It's better to live with a dumb person than a liar.
Vain speeches lead a man to the gallows.
A rogue says "yes” to what a rogue says.
A dictionary can only be read when it is printed.
Advice to all, security for none.
A clear bargain, a dear friend.
A constant guest is never welcome.
The grasshopper which is always near its mother eats the best food.
The third person makes good company.
A mother is a school, preparing her is like preparing a good nation.
Forcing a bludgeon through a chinar trunk. Doing the impossible.
Wait time and place to take your revenge, for it is never well done in a hurry.
The more chefs, the worse the soup.
The riches of the mind may make a man rich and happy.
Better lang little, then soon right nought.
He that loses is merchant as well as he that gains.
Theory dominates practice.
A house ready built and a vineyard ready planted.
Don't burn your bridges behind you.
The death throes of an elephant are not so annoying as a living flea.
'tis hard to swim against the stream.
Who sows a wind will reap a storm.
If you try to cleanse others - just like soap, you will waste away in the process.
The humble pay for the mistakes of their betters.
Don't laugh when your neighbors oven is on fire.
calf is given, but then thigh is requested.
May the people wish you well. May your god grant what you are in agreement with.
Be wise, but pretend to be ignorant.
Never mind ugly buddy I'm not a rose either.
Much smoke, and little roast.
The cheese betrays the milk.
Not to be ashamed of sin is to sin double.
If the heart is empty, the rest will soon abandon you too.
Boast during the day; be humble at night.
Living at a river, one comes to know the nature of the fish therein; Dwelling by a mountain, one learns to recognize the language of the birds thereupon.
A genuine ruby wont sink and disappear in mud.
Natural folly is bad enough, but learned folly is intolerable. (1732)
With unity there is strength.
Truth is the first victim of war.
Slow but sure.
The belly overrules the head.
Constant dipping will empty goud of honey.
A word once spoken, an army of chariots cannot overtake it.
Education: that which discloses to the wise and disguises from the foolish their lack of understanding. (Ambrose Bierce)
Truth and morning become light with time.
The shirt is nearer than the frock.
Strike the iron while it is hot.
Who changes his condition changes fortune.
A bad penny always comes back.
There is always a chance.
When a tree is falling, every one cries, down with it.
A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.
A patient that can swallow food makes the nurse doubtful.
You will never learn enough looking for only the good things in life; you will always be a pupil.
When a mouse makes fun of a cat, there is a hole.
Being a good friend of a scorpion doesn't mean that you can't be stung by a honeybee.
Love, pain, and money cannot be kept secret; they soon betray themselves.
When visitors come a wi fireside, wi mek wi pot smell nice.
If you are standing upright, don't worry if your shadow is crooked.
Close to the Tsar, close to death.
He who follows the crow will be led the the corpses of dogs.
Don't make a toil of pleasure.
You can't buy heaven with money.
It doesn't matter how slowly you go as long as you don't stop.
Don't fight with the strong one, don't sue the rich one.
Gentle is that gentle does.
Where there is sugar, there are bound to be ants.
Don't lend out something that you're going to soon need.
It is easier for the horse when a woman gets off the cart.
Failure teaches success.
Love is a kind of military service.
Regret, like a tail, comes at the end.
Don't pick a wasp out of a cream-jug.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
With true friends . . . even water drunk together is sweet enough.
A new broom sweeps in a new way.
Drop by drop the lake is formed.
A day-old pigeon cannot fly over a mountain pass.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Quietness is a great treasure.
Measure a thousand times and cut once.
The night's too short to warrant marrying poor.
Take the bull by the horns.
It is ill sailing against wind and tide.
While doctors consult, the patient dies.
As you cooked the porridge, so must you eat it.
Excessive praise is like an insult.
Hope of gain lessens pain.
Beware of laughing hosts and weeping priests.
After the gathering comes the scattering.
One swallow doesn't shit the head.
A lizard that fell from the top of a tree wastes its time looking back to where it fell from; if there was anything good the lizard deserved, it could not have missed it while it was there on top of the tree.
It's better to have lots of children than to have lots of material goods.
Enjoy every moment because life is short.
Beggars breed and rich men feed.
A young preacher, a new hell.
The essence of the spirit is space; there is nothing it holds to in the end.
There's no making the ass drink when his is not thirsty.
Laugh all the way to the bank.
Nobody lift the dog's tail when it defecates.
When fate throws a dagger at you, there are only two ways to catch it: by the blade or by the handle.
A soft-spoken compliment is honied poison.
Every virtue is but halfway between two vices.
Don't marry without love, but don't love without reason.
My skin is closer to me than my shirt is.
If the lion's skill will not do, we must sew on that of the fox.
When a musician hath forgotten his note, He makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat.
Cracow wasn't built at once.
We expiate in old age the follies of our youth.
The miller's pigs are fat but it wasn't all mouter they ate.
When men discuss the things which are to be, the rats laugh in the rafters.
Happy is the man who is out of debt.
A viper without fangs is like a piece of rope.
No matter how tall the tree is, its leaves will always fall to the ground.
Give the devil your little finger, you will be taken entirely.
Soup must be hot -- insults cold.
He whose money increases doesn't feel satisfied with his wife.
If you have a good friend, you don't need a mirror.
What was hard to endure is sweet to recall.
He who loves peace minds his own business.
The man who is not destined to die will be cured by medicine.
Happiness does not come from happiness itself, but from the journey towards achieving it.
A poor man's sheep will never get fat.
You need more than dancing shoes to be a dancer.
Good is the fowl which another rears.
An oven whose door does not shut does not bake its loaves.
When a woman talks to you, smile but do not listen.
The same hammer that breaks the glass forges the steel.
To think of it is as good as to mention it.
Beginning and ending shake hands.
When you're hungry, sing; when you're hurt, laugh.
She who does not yet know how to walk, cannot climb a ladder.
You don't know a human 'till you've seen her/him eating, when he believes that no one sees.
A man forewarned is equal to two.
A woman keeps secret only what she does not know.
When the rooster crows off the hour, don't hesitate to adjust the time.
If you plan for a year, plant kalo. If you plan for ten years, plant koa. If you plan for one-hundred years, teach the children.
Ge fàgas clach don làr, is faisge na sin cobhair Choibhi.
Youth is a blunder, manhood a struggle, old age a regret.
If you lie on the ground, you can't fall.
If you want to keep camels, have a big enough door.
Go West, young man, go West! (John Soule)
Bed is the poor man's opera.
If I am to be drowned, it shall be in clean water.
Quhen the good-wife is fra hame, the keys are tint.
None so deaf as he that will not hear.
You are my guide, my lord, and my master.
Beauty and folly go often in company.
The money marries the daughter even if she had an eye in the middle of forehead.
There are many roads to Rome.
A stolen object does not fill ones heart with joy.
Good is good, but better beats it.
If you return an ass's kick, most of the pain is yours.
Self-knowledge is the beginning of self-improvement.
Furrows are pleasant to a threshing ox.
A tyrant is only a slave turned inside out.
Opportunity only knocks once.
We might've fallen from the horse, but not from the honor.
Beauty is but dross it honesty be lost.
The cockroach inside the oakum, the more it tries to free itself, the more it's caught.
Fashion is a tyrant from which there is no deliverance; all must conform to its whimsical.
A lucky man can stumble upon a treasure while an unlucky one can't even find a mushroom.
Beware the anger of a patient man.
The truth is half a quarrel.
They prevent us from getting red clay from the pit, and they do not use it.
The monkey is a thief because it does not work.
The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes had no tears.
If the glacier perceives a headless army is clumsy, it feels a sort of emphatic guilt, I dare say.
Whom the gods hate, they make pedagogues.
The first half of life is spent in longing for the second, the second half in regretting the first.
You have to suffer a lot or die young.
The millstone that lies undermost also helps to grind.
At death, one's words and defects are buried.
A tocherless dame sits lang at hame.
A word about to be spoken is like a stone that is ready to be thrown.
Those who love in the Lord never see each other for the last time.
He that wants to keep his house clean must not let priest or pigeon into it.
Longer than the winter's night.
Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum.
He that plays at racket must watch the ball.
The corpse of a bird does not decompose in flight, but on the ground.
Beat the drum inside the house to spare the neighbors.
Those who are born to pennies never make it to pounds.
A girl apes her neighbor's frowning.
There's no catching trouts with dry breeches.
You don't become an expert in five days.
Not cheap without reason, nor dear without value.
Whosoever eats bread without first washing his hands, it is as though he had sinned with a harlot.
Bend the tree while is a twig.
They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.
He who has no spoon will burn his hands.
One ticket, one seat.
Slow but sure wins the race.
If a man told you that a dog had run off with your ear, would you go after the dog or search first for your ear?
Bake the bread while the oven is hot.
Spring won't come from one flower.
The best chaperon a girl can have is to be in love with another fellow.
Exile is the brother of death.
You think of water when the well is empty.
The highway is always shorter than the unknown side roads.
Mock not the fallen, for slippery is the road ahead of you.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
However far the stream flows, it never forgets its source.
Where the heart loves, there the legs walk.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, be strong.
Fame is longer than life.
Where you see the tail, there is the mouse.
Don't make promises to the rich nor withhold from the poor.
A guest and a fish stink in three days.
Everything the house gets is by favor of the door.
An estate inherited is the less valued.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
When the hen gets fat, she stops lying.
If he gives you a rope, tie him with it.
Take a horse by his bridle and a man by his word.
He devil tempts all, but the idle man tempts the devil.
When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
She would be a nice girl if she didn't have her head.
An excuse is sometime more ugly than a guilt.
Confession is good for the soul.
He knows where the devil has his tail.
Too many fingers spoil the pie.
An argument against the man.
Who digs a pit will himself fall therein.
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
The life of a young unmarried man is dancing.
The crow thinks her own birds fairest.
The food eaten first lasts longest in the stomach.
In the country of the blind the one eyed man is king.
It is a mean mouse that has but ae hole.
People make the bells say what they please.
He that flees and runs away might live to see another day.
If you want to totally avoid being deceived, get married on February 30th.
Hannibal is at the gate.
Не that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
Dogs bark but the caravan moves on.
A cry and a sniff, and all comes to naught.
A wolf often lies concealed in the skin of a lamb.
After rain comes sunshine.
He that feeds himself from waiting could die of hunger.
Don't lie down in low places, flood will take you, don't lie down in high places, wind will take you.
A beautiful one hurts the heart.
Who doesn't collect kopecks will not get a ruble.
Man who waits for roast duck to fly into mouth must wait very, very long time.
Where the cattle does not graze, the warriors pass.
One flower doesn't bring spring.
In the house of the shoemaker there are no shoes.
The love of a stranger is like water in a basket.
They who are born of chickens scratch the earth.
An honest man does not make himself a dog for the sake of a bone.
A willing helper does not wait until he is asked.
There's cunning in a pointed chin.
When a woman is not singing, she is not working much either.
Another man's poison is not necessarily yours.
Honesty with poverty is better than ill-gotten wealth.
When the two ends of the candle are lighted it does not stand long.
The dancing of tanerore has begun.
What one's head lacks one has to have in one's legs.
After three years at a village schoolhouse, even a dog can recite a poem.
Reading books removes sorrows from the heart.
The camel never sees his own hump, but that of his brother is always in his eyes.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Like a gold ring in a pigs snout is a woman without descretion.
When you're invited, eat heartily, because if they like you they'll laugh, and if they don't like you they'll feel the pangs of death.
The soul of a fool is always dancing on the tip of his tongue.
Don't cry over the spilled milk.
One whisky is all right; two is too much; three is too few.
Even a ball of wool has a beginning.
When a warrior goes to a battle, he does not abandon his friends.
Words are like the spider's web: a shelter for the clever ones and a trap for the not-so-clever.
Your friend chooses pebbles for you and your enemy counts your faults.
Eat whatever thou likest, but dress as others do.
The grass torch that burns a bad house, also burns a good one.
Someone who speaks about "my inferiors” doesn't have them.
Resignation is fitting for destiny.
He who provokes a war must be sure that he knows how to fight.
Keep learning because knowledge is the key to power.
Every action has its consequences.
People take more pains to be damned than to be saved.
One who plants grapes by the road side, and one who marries a pretty woman, share the same problem.
Karma is the mother and karma is the father.
Better to ride an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
The road to ruin is paved with good intentions.
One who talks to himself can not be wrong.Ie no one to correct him.
Who gets mixed up with garbage will be eaten by pigs.
Better a friendly refusal than an unwilling consent.
If you can't give any sugar then speak sweetly.
Make your bargain before beginning to plow.
The begining of a mat-making is two slips of raffia leaf.
The thorn will come out from where it went in.
There's no agreement under pressure.
Take care of your pennies and your dollars will take care of themselves.
As long as I am running my father will still have a son.
Seek strength, not to be greater than my brother, but to fight my greatest enemy - myself.
Better one cow in peace than seven in trouble.
We must convince by reason, not prescribe by tradition.
A sincere invitation is accompanied by a pull.
One who's been bitten by a snake is afraid of a black-and-white rope.
If there is light in the soul, there will be beauty in the person. If there is beauty in the person, there will be harmony in the house. If there is harmony in the house, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
A book is a garden carried in the pocket.
Words go further than bullets.
Little kettles soon boil over.
No person can like all, or be liked by all.
An honest man would rather sell his land than tell a lie.
On an empty belly every burden is heavy.
When a wolf is mentioned, he is already walking round the garden.
Those are wise that heed advice, but no one should heed dissuasive advice.
Heavenly music is interpreted differently by everyone.
If you close the door, the devil will turn his back on you.
Men will not be fortunate without a helping hand from misfortune.
A white piastre for a black day.
Lies and Latin go round the world.
Experience is the mother of science.
Guard your mouth as well as you guard your chest.
Avoid doctors and always keep them far away.
Every time history repeats itself the price goes up.
The money paid, the workman's arm is broken.
The truth is better than a lie.
Work the fields on a fine day, study on a rainy day.
There is no queue at the gate of Patience.
Care about your students.
Wise men learn by other men's harms; fools, by their own.
When men speak of the future, the gods laugh.
Curiosity killed the cat.
In eating 'tis good to begin, one morsel helps the other in.
Silence is the interpreter of happiness.
Whore or thief young or old, welcome so you've got the gold.
He must have crept out of hell while the devil was asleep.
True bravery is without witness.
Knowledge, humbles a great person, astonishes the common, and puffs up the small.
It's dress in a man, bindings in baskets' edge.
he keeps her/his face red with slaps.
He that will not look forward must look behind.
The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord.
Where conceit and ignorance sit, grass will not grow again.
The fetus that is afraid of criticism is never born.
If there is no apple one eats a little carrot.
Coins are round and come and go.
Don't boast when you start out, but when you get there.
Buy from people who are desperate, and sell to newlyweds.
A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed.
A puff of wind and popular praise weigh the same.
When a thief finds nothing to steal he will steal a dagger made of sand.
Most often a good boss makes a good steward.
The horns of the sister are horns of gold; the horns of the wife are true horns.
Tell your friends a lie; if he keeps it secret tell him the truth.
To love the king is not bad, but a king who loves you is better.
Ill words are bellows to a slackening fire.
New king, new character.
the key to all things is determination.
The saint's-day over, farewell the saint.
In our eyes the neighbor's chicken is a goose.
There is nothing like deprivation to generate thanks for small mercies.
The year has a wide mouth and a big belly.
‘what a dust we kick up,' as the fly said to the cart wheel.
If you're not at the war front its easy to assume we didn't put up a good fight.
A rope parts where is thinnest.
Let it be a bite of a cockroach and fly with the wind.
A clown enriched knows neither relation nor friend.
It is from listening to old men that you learn wisdom.
Don't cut the bough you are standing on.
Two dogs seldom agree over one bone.
He that has no good trade, it is to his loss.
Spread the table and contention will cease.
Laws go where dollars please.
A day to come seems longer than a year that's gone.
Flying birds have no master.
A camel can tolerate a heavy load, but not a crooked rope.
When the fox preaches, take care of yourselves, hens.
Never burn a penny candle looking for a halfpenny.
If young men had wit and old men strength everything might be well done.
People should be mourned at their birth, not at their death.
No good will come of over sleeping.
Overturned water doesn't return to the tray.
It's by following his friends that a crab lost its hiding place.
An ounce of blood is worth more than a pound of friendship.
Beware of the anger of a patient man.
Luck belongs to the brave.
He knocks boldly at the door who brings good news.
Ride on the back of a mare, but on the shoulders of horses.
Today a man, tomorrow none.
In bad fortune hold out, in good hold in.
Choose your wife as you wish your children to be.
Do not buy either the moon or the news, for in the end they will both come out.
He who sees leather cut asks for a thong.
The boat follows the helm, the woman follows her husband.
Many heads, many minds.
Approach heaven with a single stride.
There is nothing better than a good woman and nothing worse than a bad one.
Even the rich man's rooster lays eggs.
Fair feathers make fair fowls.
You can't take blood from a stone.
Whoever lets himself be led by the heart will never lose his way.
Although there exist many thousands of subjects for elegant conversation, there are persons who cannot meet a cripple without talking about feet.
A muffled cat is no good mouser.
God is good, but never dance in a small boat.
Liquor never hurt a cheap man.
When we understand deeply in out hearts, we will fear and love.
Better a hundred enemies outside the house than one inside.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel.
Breaking her hip is the old woman's fault.
He that trusts a faithless friend, has a good witness against him.
Even if your bee-hive has no honey in it, you shouldn't break it up.
When yuh see a man fishing in a dry pond don't call he a fool.
Don't try to teach your Grandma to suck eggs.
If a rich man ate a snake, they would say it was because of his wisdom.
God isn't in need of our prayers.
Although the horse is stupid, it does not follow that the rider is stupid.
He who is anxious to secure the best tends to get stuck with the worst of the rest.
He who tells his own affairs will hardly keep secret those of others.
A person born to be a flower pot will not go beyond the porch.
More afraid than hurt.
Easier said than done.
Don't consider your reputation and you may do anything you like.
Eleven don't make a dozen.
One gentle word opens a gate of iron.
The tree casts its shade upon all, even upon the woodcutter.
Cheerfulness and goodwill make labour light.
You cannot eat downwind, you will get the chaff in your eyes.
Link by link the coat of mail is made.
Do a good job of rooting out the turf and you'll prosper enough to enjoy focaccia.
Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.
Money is the sinew of war.
The sheep on the mountain is higher than the bull on the plain.
A drowning man grabs even a straw.
A book, tight shut, is but a block of paper.
Virtue is not knowing but doing.
A lamb when carried far becomes as burdensome as a sheep.
Heresy may be easier kept out than shook off.
It is better to weep with wise men than to laugh with fools.
A good harvest does not grow with ease; the more diligent the farmer, the more bountiful the crop.
Care brings on grey hairs, and age without years.
They say is often a great liar.
I canna afford you both tale and lugs.
Never burn your fingers to snuff another man's candle.
Do it today! tomorrow it might be forbidden.
Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it.
If you think education is expensive try ignorance.
Better a friend than money to spend.
Where there's a will there's a way.
A penny for your thoughts.
A red dog, a read horse, a red man - none of them are good.
Those who wish to sing always find a song.
He who would relish his food must not see it cooked.
With time and art the leaf of the mulberry-tree becomes satin.
None can guess the jewel by the casket.
God does not concell a liar.
A word and a stone once thrown away cannot be returned.
The day did not know that night had fallen.
He that marries a beggar gets a louse for a tocher.
It is up to the people to feed the dogs; it's up to the Cardias to feed the Turks.
The man of many trades begs his bread on Sunday.
The wise must be respected, even when the advice they give is not suitable.
Never judge the book by it's cover.
If I were to trade in winding sheets, no one would die.
Let them that are cold blow at the coal.
The extreme form of passionate love is secret love.
Fish, to taste good, must swim three times: in water, in butter, and in wine.
If you get rich, be in a dark corner when you jump for joy.
Better come late to church than never.
Many things are too bad to be blessed, and too good to be cursed.
Cow of many - well milked and badly fed.
Not all men who walk in the street naked are crazy.
Like the marriage feast of mapassa.
Bad the crow, bad the egg.
A marketplace is not the pace for a husband and wife to argue.
The lambskin is not worth the currying.
A man without religion is a horse without a bridle.
His bread fell into the honey.
If you see your brother being scalped, put water on your hair.
It will be all the same a hundred years hence.
Poverty does not lose its virtue.
All things are possible with god.
What force cannot do ingenuity may.
That which everybody guards will soon disappear.
Beauty cannot be eaten with a spoon.
I say it to you, daughter; hear it, daughter-in-law.
An understanding person needs only half a word.
He is of the race of Johnny Van Cleeve; who would always much rather have than give.
What can a cat do if its master is crazy.
Of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.
Conscience is what tells you not to do what you have just done.
The hen lays an egg, and the cock feels the pain in his backside.
The heart's letter is read in the eye.
Yesterday's promise, like tomorrows never comes.
Cold cools the love that kindles over hot.
the child and the little bird, God catches the fall.
A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor.
He is a fool who marries an old woman without teeth.
The more you know, the luckier you get.
Every peasant is proud of the pond in his village because from it he measures the sea.
Good study and good care banish and break bad luck.
What you may call small another will call it big.
Cover the back of an image of Buddha with gold leaf.
It is not easy to guard the hen that lays her eggs abroad.
Your lord is the lord of hearts.
With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping.
Though the blind man cannot see it, light remains light.
In every country dogs bite.
A man without money is like a bow without arrows.
To set fire to a church is not so bad as to speak ill of a virgin.
There's no such thing as a free lunch.
The wicked shun the light as the devil does the cross.
Without driving even a goat would not go to the market.
If the full moon loves you, why worry about the stars?
More cautious than a crow.
Give assistance, and receive thanks lighter than a feather: injure a man, and his wrath will be like lead.
He makes the hare spring out of the bush.
The best candle is understanding.
The more you try to cover things up, the more exposed they will be.
A person always breaking off from work never finishes anything.
If the dowry doesn't support her, even the executioner is disinterested.
Guest and fish stinks at third day.
Help you to salt, help you to sorrow.
A hasty man drinks his tea with a fork.
God sends men cold according to their clothes.
He who spits up in the air will get it back on his beard.
Till age six, your son is your master; until ten he's your servant; until sixteen, a wonderful adviser; from then on, he's either your friend or your enemy.
Another's bread costs dear.
Blame yourself as you would blame others; excuse others as you would excuse yourself.
A thankless man never does a thankful deed.
Courage is fear that has said its prayers.
Take opportunity by the forelock.
If you knock your head against a wall, then a coconut tree and pillar and your head still remains undamaged my child, go and hide that head of yours; it is a good head.
To speak is silver, to keep silent is gold.
If you would be happy for a week take a wife; if you would be happy for a month kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life plant a garden.
There is many a fair thing full false.
An inch of time is an inch of gold but you can't buy that inch of time with an inch of gold.
The forest has ears, and field has eyes.
You may force a man to shut his eyes, but not to sleep.
One pound of learning might have required many thousand persons of common sense to acquire it.
Law governs man, and reason the law.
It takes both luck and good fortune just to fry eggs.
Do not abuse palm-wine tappers while drunkness persists.
Experience may teach a fool.
He who is master of himself cannot tolerate another boss.
A noisy drumming does not last long.
If you cannot moan in a true cultural manner then it means your laughing.
Meaning: Nature can help and harm you. The people (the water) can raise someone (a boat) to power, but can also take that power away (sinking the boat).
Who is quick in youth will be diligent in old age.
Honeyed speech often conceals poison and gall.
A car without a linch-pin will not move three span.
He who does not honour his wife, dishonours himself.
"age before beauty,” said the devil as he threw his grandmother off' the stairs.
The treason approved, the traitor abhorred.
Soft words and hard arguments.
Words may either conceal character or reveal it.
I am not dead yet. i can suffer a bit more.
Choose your company before you go drinking.
Kindness comes o will, it canna be coft.
If your son-in-law is good, you gained a son. if he is bad, you've lost a daughter.
Who goes near soot smells of soot, and who goes near musk smells of musk.
Who talks too much, nobody listens to.
‘kanywanjui' scratches its thigh.
Death was afraid of him because he had the heart of a lion.
A wise wolf hides his fangs.
Children are buttonholes that hold their parents together.
An old wolf is used to be shouted at.
Children and drunken men speak the truth.
As the camel falls to its knees, more knives are drawn.
Talking is easy, action difficult.
The dog's tail stays crooked even if he is buried for twelve years.
A hungry man discovers more than a hundred lawyers.
He who runs in his youth, trots in his old age.
Witch doctors do not sell their potions to each other.
An army of stags led by a lion would be more formidable than one of lions led by a stag.
A good name is like sweet smelling ointment.
The strength of a tree lies in its roots - not in its branches.
He has too many lice to feel an itch.
It's difficult to build a boat plank against the wave.
You sell more herrings on the market than sole.
Mad as a wet hen.
If there is no patience, there will be no food.
Do not ship all in one bottom.
Trapani, red coral, Monte San Giuliano, beautiful children.
For every one with a plow-there're seven with a spoon.
The exception confirms the rule.
One speaks badly of the absent but fears the present.
Once you pour the water out of the bucket it's hard to get it back in it.
What you can't have, abuse.
A crow thinks her own bird fairest.
A bad settlement is better than a good lawsuit.
A book that remains shut, is but a block.
Adversity and loss make a man wise.
The herb patience does not grow in every man's garden.
Take thy thoughts to bed with thee, for the morning is wiser than the evening.
He that spares to speak, spares to speed.
It is no disgrace to move out of the way of the elephant.
Irishwomen have a dispensation from the pope to wear the thick ends of their legs downwards.
Always remember that a smile is something sacred, to be shared.
A nibbling rabbit can also die of overfeeding.
God does not hide a liar.
It's not worth undressing a saint to dress another one.
The world goes as it will and not as you or I would want it.
Paczolay, Gyula (1997). European Proverbs in 55 languages. DeProverbio.com. p. 170. ISBN 1-875943-44-7.
Everyone greets others with a hat he has got.
An old man loved is a winter with flowers.
Beauty never travels in a group.
A plough that worketh, shines; but still water stinks.
One may have good eyes and yet see nothing.
So the man, so his shadow.
The pig says: give to me and I'll give to you, don't tell me how long it's taking.
He who has lost his reputation is a dead man among the living.
Beloved children have many names.
A person who is always looking at the sky will never discover anything on the ground.
The camel stallion grows old, the camel foal grows up.
Who has not had a taste longs to do so, but for whom has tasted then the longing is a hundred times more.
Death has no modesty.
De berry don' drop too far from de tree.
The strongest man on earth is he who stands alone.
Once I had the strength but no wisdom; now I have the wisdom but no strength.
With age comes wisdom.
Don't see animals around the village and say there is nobody to hunt them.
He that talketh what he knoweth, will also talk what he knoweth not. (Francis Bacon)
Let every one keep off the flies with his own tail.
Praise yourself, basket, for I want to sell you.
His wit got wings and would have flown, But poverty still kept him down.
There's no advice like father's -- even if you don't take it.
Begin with patience, end with pleasure.
An insolent tongue is a bad weapon.
The cow must graze where she is tied.
The lazy is a brother of the begger.
See and blind, hear and deaf.
If God lived on earth, people would break his windows.
A woman like a sickle, a strong stubborn woman.
Punctuality is the politeness of kings.
Kisses that are easily obtained are easily forgotten.
If you are not a flower, don't be a thorn.
In the end, all foxes meet at the furrier's.
Let him stay at the oar who has learnt to row.
Vice often rides triumphantly in the coach of virtue.
For the birds that cannot soar, God has provided low branches.
It's a well-known fact, dirt stinks more when stirred.
No gain is as certain as that which proceeds from the economical use of what you already have.
To know that candles are expensive is of no value to the blind man.
No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning.
What blossoms beautifully, withers fast.
Diligence is the mistress of success.
Harm watch, harm catch.
A man with a cross eye shall be put to the torch.
Point at the mulberry and abuse the pagoda tree.
Girl, your brother cannot choose for you; whom do you choose?
The most dangerous food to eat is a wedding cake.
Every man is his own worst enemy.
Throw him into the river and he will come up with a fish in his mouth.
The dog gets into the mill under cover of the ass.
Everyone encounters tribbles occasionally.
The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age.
Self praise is odious.
Beautiful roads never go far.
When its time has come, the prey goes to the hunter.
When the weather changes, the beast sneezes.
The shallower the brook, the more it babbles.
To make an error is human, keep doing it is foolishness.
One door is shut, but a thousand are open.
Water, smoke, and a vicious woman, drive men out of the house.
You only fool yourself when you seed badly.
You can conquer the whole world with words, but not with drawn swords.
Growing rice gives you more than poetry will.
The hunter does not lie down with the prey.
This is the milkmaid's tale.
Absence kills a little love but makes the big ones grow.
Being quiet is agreeing.
Think and thank god.
We praised the bride, and she was found pregnant.
No man can be happy without a friend, or be sure of his friend till he is unhappy.
Nothing so bold as a miller's shirt.
All things were once impossible.
You cannot have peace longer than your neighbour chooses.
When an observation by joke is true, it is out of place and ill-natured.
A pleasant companion on a journey is as good as a postchaise.
Fresh port and new wine, send a Christian to the churchyard.
He who dies not in his twenty-third year, drowns not in his twenty-fourth, and is not slain in his twenty-fifth, may boast of good days.
He likes it, as a goat likes the knife, that kills him.
A lady is a woman who makes it easy for a man to be a gentleman.
A good man never stays in the grave forever, he always has chance to come back.
He who shares the meat is always left with the bone.
Beauty is as beauty does.
For a young man contemplating marriage: That you might have nicer legs than your own under your table before the new spuds are up.
Don't wake up trouble while it sleeps quietly.
To be a fool at the right time is an art.
Ill befal the belly that forgets eaten bread.
The full man does not understand the wants of the hungry.
Gold is gold, though it be in a rogue's purse.
As long as you are standing, give a hand to those who have fallen.
You can be cautious about the future but not the past.
If I were a prophet, I wouldn't be wretched.
To preserve friendship, one must build walls.
Truth is time's daughter.
By continually striving for the best, one may waste good opportunities.
There is no good accord where every man would be a lord.
A little pleases a poor man.
The only friendly cow is the one which gives milk.
What is hanging up, cannot be reached sitting down.
The mother of a fool is always pregnant.
The common horse is worst shod.
Do good and throw it in sea.
For his master the dog is a lion.
No experience, narrow minded.
I bake nae bread by your shins.
Whiskey on beer, never fear. Beer on whiskey, mighty risky.
All people are your relatives, therefore expect only trouble from them.
He who takes the profit ought also to take the labour.
To set the wolf to keep the sheep.
Fear to let spill a drop and you will spill a lot.
It is not what they profess but what they practice that makes them good.
A true friend is better than relations.
If the truth hurts, you are not living right.
Let it be well recorded that a harlot is a gate which leads to death.
The eye that sees all things else, sees not itself.
Give me a seat, and I will make myself room to lie down.
Marry, marry, sounds well but tastes ill.
Words are but sands; 'tis money buys lands.
The silent are often guilty.
Only iron strikes iron.
A stake, my lord; "hero" is its name.
Don't try to make someone hate the person he loves, for he will still go on loving, but he will hate you.
Necessity unites hearts.
The best remedy against an ill man, is much ground between.
Young sugar-cane gives no beer.
Every cask smells of the wine it contains.
There is more light than can be seen through the window.
Even a frog would bite if it had teeth.
At the center of climb is "I"
It's no crime to steal from a thief.
The proportion of things thrill the eye.
All is fair in love and war.
There is nothing as eloquent as a rattlesnake's tail.
Advice should precede the act.
There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew, and that is fishing for a clam in the clam chowder.
If you are a host to your guest, be a host to his dog as well.
It is no time to stoop when the head is off.
Death keeps no calendar.
Even the fall of a dancer is a somersault.
A successful writer has a good memory and hopes that others do not have it.
The honorable man lives in difficulty.
Half an egg is better than an empty eggcup.
Envy eats nothing, but its own heart.
To leave a place is to die a little.
The crow said: "Oh, my snow-white child".
The remedy may be worse than the disease.
A sheet of paper is lighter if two of you don't try to carry it.
Make not a fence more expensive or more important than the thing that is fenced.
You can't tell the cost of food and fuel without being the head of a household; you can't appreciate the love of your parents without having children of your own.
If you see something and say nothing, you will have nothing to suffer for.
Who wouldn't lick his fingers when they have been dipped in honey?
Many hounds mean the death of the hare.
Nothing looks more like a man of sense than a fool who holds his tongue.
'tis a long day a day without bread.
It is foolish to deal with a fool.
Boil not the pap before the child is born.
A proverb is the wisdom of age and antiquity.
A friend to all is a friend to none.
The virtue of silence is a great piece of knowledge.
Draw not thy bow before thy arrow be fixed.
Bought things do not fill the granary.
Favor your own first, then others.
A joy that's shared is a joy made double.
To pound water with a mortar is futile.
Youths look at the future, the elderly at the past, our ancestors live in the present.
If the walls were adamant, gold would take the town.
The rat who only knows about one hole will soon be caught by the cat.
A fog cannot be dispelled by a fan.
Sorrow is the seed of wealth.
Speak little, speak truth. Spend little, pay cash.
Govern a country as you would roast a crocodile on a spit.
The tender surgeon makes the wound gangrene.
With a staircase before you, you look for a rope to go down by.
Of hunger and debt, debt is preferable.
A lock is meant only for honest men.
Once you've cut the bread, you cannot put it together again.
What is new is esteemed, but what is in every day use ceases to afford interest.
A civil question deserves a civil answer.
Good manners and not beauty leads to love.
If an insect as ever bit you when you see it, you kill it or run away.
Do not use words that are too big for your mouth.
When you insult a klingon's honor, prepare for trouble.
When a merchant talks about sheep he means the hide.
Caution minimizes loss.
You can have no more of a cat than her skin.
The day after is the student of the day before.
To control the mind is like trying to control a drunken monkey that has been bitten by a scorpion.
A gentle hand may lead even an elephant by a single hair.
Only a fool will make a doctor his heir.
Who doesn't make a knot at the end of the thread, loses the stitch more than once.
Marriage is not a tight knot, but a slip knot.
For me today, for you tomorrow.
Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.
A leopard is chasing us and do you ask me: ‘is it a male or female?'
Between two friends even water drunk together is sweet enough.
The stitch is lost unless the thread be knotted.
"I heard" is good; "I saw" is better.
Someone's end is someone's beginning.
If the building of a nest were easy, would the little "apatipers" bird roost in the fork of a tree?
A toom purse makes a pratling merchant.
When you have no companion, look to your walking stick.
Gold takes no rust.
Time makes the best healer.
Jabber, Emelya – your week.
Do what your teacher says but not what he does.
Drawn wells have sweetest water.
Better gain in mud than lose in gold.
All the fruit is not found in just one field.
In the matter of pigs, all is money, and in the matter of money, all are pigs.
If you see a Greek and a wolf, avoid the wolf and shoot the Greek.
If you want to live in peace, you must not tell everything that you know, nor judge everything that you see.
Travelling is seeing.
It is better to travel alone than with a bad companion.
If your mouth is in someone else's kitchen it cannot get its independence.
Man noh dead, noh call ‘im duppy.
A woman's place is in the home.
When a woman laughs an experienced man will know how much it will cost him.
If you lay upon roses when young, you'll lie upon thorns when old.
Allah gives dried beans to eat to him who has no teeth left.
Policy goes beyond strength.
If you tell your secret to your friend, you will make him your master.
There is no hand to catch time.
He who starts his work early enough is neither hit by the severe sun heat nor the burning sand.
Expect trust from a dog but not from a woman.
The skin of yesteday's sugarcane is a havest to an ant.
Those who respect the elderly pave their own road toward success.
One never tires working for oneself.
You would frighten a lion with a mask!
Where people are promising much to you, bring a small bag.
The shirt is nearer than the coat.
Don't bid the devil good day till you meet him.
One cannot please everybody and one's father.
An empty vessel makes the most noise.
Time is money, said the unemployed when sold his watch.
To change the world we must first change ourselves.
Our last garment is made without pockets.
He who takes a lot of risks loses more than he can gain.
Wonder is the beginning of wisdom.
All that shines is not silver.
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
If you are going to do something carelessly, it is better to give it up entirely.
There's no better sauce than a good appetite.
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
You can't keep the birds from flying over your head, but you can keep them from building a nest in your hair.
The truth will set you free.
If your friend is honey, don't lick him thoroughly.
By the first glass a lamb, the second a lion, and the third a pig.
As soon as you have finished a job, you start appreciating the difficulties.
The rain falls upon the just and the unjust.
The law is three days older than the earth.
The child is the father of the man.
The day you go naked, is the day you will meet your father.
No man is brave in the presence of a crying woman.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
The wood is the poor man's coat.
The ostrich was asked to carry a load, it said. I'm a bird. It was asked to fly, it said, I'm a camel.
He who goes everywhere gains everywhere.
In the hangman's house you will always find a rope.
Pride goes before, and shame follows.
Ones neighbours problems, does not induce one to lose their appetite over them.
The ways of the immoral are always predictable.
Proverbs can be applied to get what you want.
In times of difficulty, friendship is on trial.
It is a bad thing to be a knave, but worse to be known for one.
Cobbler, do not go beyond the last.
You can not tell a hungry child that you gave him food yesterday.
About evening a man is known.
When a man remembers the land, the land remembers him.
The worst wheel of a cart creaks most.
You cannot draw blood from a turnip.
The hen likes to lay in a nest where there are eggs already.
Excuses are always mixed with lies.
The motherless child will suckle the grandmother.
What grows makes no noise.
A silly daughter teaches her mother how to bear children.
Only dead fish follow the stream.
Small beer comes the last.
The wise man says what he knows; the fool doesn't know what he is saying.
If an eel is with fish, he shows his tail; if he is with snakes, he shows his head.
If you want to die quickly, wash your head and go to sleep.
Dead though the oil-palm may be, the maggot in it lives on.
Beggars fear no rebellion.
The blind man is laughing at the bald head.
The eyes believe themselves the ears believe other people.
The song of a stranger-woman is answered after she has gone.
You can't buy an inch of time with an inch of gold.
A wise falcon hides his talons.
White flowers are not to be found in a coal sack.
Correction bringeth fruit.
Ox, keep to your grass.
A monkey is not to be caught in a trap.
You can take a monkey out of the bush, but you cant take the bush of a monkey.
There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry.
God often pays debts without money.
Any thing for a quiet life.
In a deserted village the jackass is king.
Keep your eyes on the sun and you will not see the shadows.
Don't step over a grave or you will soon die.
An apple-pie without some cheese is like a kiss without a squeeze.
Build a golden bridge for the fleeing enemy.
Shyness is the prison of the heart.
Blaming is easy; doing better is more difficult.
No one knows if a bird in flight has an egg in its stomach.
The sack of longing has no bottom.
Tell the truth and shame the devil.
In spending lies the advantage.
Caution is a parent of safety.
There's trouble in every house and some in he street.
Smiles that you broadcast, will always come back to you.
Without men in the neighborhood all the women are chaste.
Those who play bowls must look out for rubbers.
A word of kindness is better than a bottle of vodka.
Children suck the mother when they are young and the father when they are old.
What kind of a scribe is a scribe who does not know Sumerian?
To strain at a gnat and swallow a camel.
Danger is never conquered without danger.
He knows not the law who knows not the reason thereof.
Neither fish, flesh nor good red herring.
It is a poor village that has neither smoke nor fire.
From short pleasure long repentance.
Wisdom and serenity should not unduly weigh down a person.
At table keep short hand; in company keep a short tongue.
A man's work is from sun to sun, but a mother's work is never done.
Love, everyone says it's bitter, but everyone wants to see for themselves if it's true.
The boor looks after a cent as the devil after a soul.
Where they is mourning someone has died.
They who are often at the looking-glass seldom spin.
You can't catch a louse with one finger.
Neither promise wax to the saint, nor cakes to the child.
Economize now or suffer want later.
A peacock has too little in its head, too much in its tail.
Every cook praises his own broth.
Love comes after marriage.
Honourable words by the bushel!
Many are the roads that do not lead to the heart.
The night is the king of the shadows.
The lazier a man is, the more he plans to do tomorrow.
The middle path is the safe path.
Never be boastful; someone may pass who knew you as a child.
You are barking up the wrong tree.
To a good rider, right or left makes no difference.
A promise is a debt.
Wedlock rides in the saddle and repentance on the crupper.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb.
He who would enjoy the feast should fast on the eve.
Those who give birth to nincompoop it's not their wish.
The little alms are the good alms.
Who has tasted a sour apple, will have the more relish for a sweet one.
You can teach other people how to learn other languages but you can't teach them how to govern themselves.
God never sends mouths but he sends meat.
A drop of water in the eyes of the Tsar costs the country many handkerchiefs.
He would sell even his share of the sun.
I have to live in Finland. I could never leave this land; it would make the end of me and would mean death to my art.
Promise little but do much.
It is a silly flock where the yow bears the bell.
The acolyte at the gate reads scriptures he has never learned.
Eating little and speaking little can hurt no man.
To promise and give nothing is comfort for a fool.
An eight-sided beauty is coldhearted.
Cover up the good you do - do like the nile and conceal your sources.
Sooner or later perseverance achieves.
There's no ill that doesn't turn out for the better.
When prosperity smiles, beware of its guiles.
Sow dry and set wet.
The greyhound that starts many hares kills none.
There is a crock of gold in the tomb of every chieftain, but they are all guarded by cats and fairies.
From plate to mouth you miss the soup.
The monkey knows the tree it climbs.
I'll give away rice fields and footpaths.
A knife does not recognise its owner.
The tongue is soft but constantly remains; the teeth are hard yet they fall out.
Blood follow vein.
The wise traveler leaves his heart at home.
If you feel an urge to work, take a nap, and it will pass.
He should have a long spoon who sups with the devil.
How can the foal amble if the horse and mare trot?
A woman can't drive her husband, but she can lead him.
There is never wanting a dog to bark at you.
A woman gets thirty percent of her beauty from nature and seventy percent from makeup.
Who goes for a day in the forest should take bread for a week.
It's a bad plan that cannot be changed.
Birds of the same colour fly to the same place.
When the big drum is sounded the small drums keep silence.
Better a dog fawn on you than bite you.
The sooner begun, the sooner done.
Before enlightenment chop wood, carry water. After enlightenment chop wood, carry water.
He shaves a bald head.
There is no off switch on a tiger.
With enough "ifs" we could put Paris into a bottle.
A fool can tell only foolish things.
There are a thousand paths to every wrong.
The bandits in the mountain are easily subjected, but it is difficult to subject the bandits in my heart.
Abundance breeds arrogance.
Eat with the devil but give him a long spoon.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live you life in a manner so that when you die the world cries and you rejoice.
He who fights with a wall will only hurt his hand.
Solitude is the nurse of wisdom.
Take the world nice and easy, and the world will take you the same.
The choice oil is from the surface, the best wine is from the middle, and the best honey is from the bottom.
Spilled water is better than a broken jar.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
To follow the path, look to the master, follow the master, walk with the master, see through the master, become the master.
Money makes the horse gallop whether he has shoes or not.
He that is kinder than he was wont hath a design upon thee.
Nail by, with nail.
The great question is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with failure.
A tree of your height cannot shade you.
The reward of a thing rightly done is to have done it.
To advise is easier than to help.
A sandstorm passes; the stars remain.
Save a thief from the gallows and he'll be the first who shall cut your throat.
Away goes the devil if he finds the door shut against him.
Blood boils without fire.
Bitter pills may have wholesome effects.
I neither give nor take, like a Jew on the Sabbath.
Live with vultures, and become a vulture; live with crows, and become a crow.
Don't look at the visitor's face but at his stomach.
Stretch your legs no farther than your coverlet.
The garment of peace never fades.
Who has a trade may go anywhere.
Why marry, when your neighbor's wife is ready to go to bed with you?
It is not the load but the overload that kills.
The blind person never fears ghosts.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Puffed goods are putrid.
Catch not at the shadow, and lose the substance.
Every rule has its exception.
Every smart man is an ignoramus who abuses his ignorance.
The damage of another is soon forgotten.
Although he comes and cuts me down, I'll grow next spring.
Even the mightest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
We covet not that of the existence of which we are ignorant.
A blockhead, a dolt, a donkey, a leaden-headed fellow.
No matter how long a stick may stay in a river, it will never change into fish.
It is better not to begin than, having begun, leave unfinished.
The recruit is the fastest animal of the forest.
A dog on the hay: will neither eat it himself, nor let others eat it.
Hog run fe him life, darg run fe him character.
He who has been bitten by a snake fears a piece of string.
You must howl among the wolves.
If you're so smart, why aren't you rich?
Crowning a clown won't make him a king.
Do bad and remember, do good and forget.
A monkey makes fun of the red behinds of his fellow monkeys.
The best wine has its lees.
The heart of a servant that is not beaten is full of curses.
A good thing is esteemed more in its absence than in its enjoyment.
How could the boots get on the table.
Evil words corrupt good manners.
Don't bargain with God.
Thirsty men make good prophets.
The son does not cut his finger in cutting meat for his father.
Nothing in this world is certain but death and next winter's snows.
It is nothing at all, only a woman drowning.
Early flowers give no seed.
The afterthought is good for nought, except it be to catch blind horses with.
From success to failure is one step; from failure to success is a long road.
God's a good man. (William Shakespeare)
Marry in haste, and repent at leisure.
Thraw the wand while it is green.
Beautiful from behind, ugly in front.
Many buy the bearskin before the bear is shot.
Fate sends almonds to toothless people.
Make yourself all honey and the flies will devour you.
The oldest trees often bear the sweetest fruit.
He is not an honest man who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company that the soup is hot.
Summer vacation on the ice of a lake.
If you dance, you must pay the piper.
A bird of unmindfulness flutters o'er ale feasts.
A snake's ears only listen to a stick.
To the lean pig a fat acorn.
Everything is beautiful once the eye likes the view.
Last night I made a thousand plans, but this morning I went my old way.
When the sun rises, it rises for everyone.
The difference between them is like that between sky and earth.
A man who lives alone is either always overworked, or always overfed.
An ounce of discretion is better than a pound of knowledge.
Everyone knows where his shoe pinches.
Since the house is on fire I will warm myself at the blaze.
If not for fear, sin would be sweet.
If the State is going to fall, it is from the belly.
No one tests the depth of the river with both feet.
A business is good, when both parties make a good bargain.
May God save us from good weather in January.
A thief is a rogue but the one who repays is a gentleman.
The show must go on.
Beauty is the sister of idleness and the mother of luxury.
One knows even when one neighbour's bread is in the oven.
Snakes turn milk into poison.
Every country has its customs.
God sends cold after clothes.
A fool's heart is found in his mouth.
Often a silent face has voice and words.
They buy good cheap that brings nothing hame.
To touch the earth is to have harmony with nature.
Fighting a wolf with a flex stalk - either side is afraid of the other.
Butter spoils no meat, and moderation injures no cause.
Unshared joy is an unlighted candle.
If you do not travel, you will marry your own sister.
Trust the virgin and don't run.
Better lose the saddle than the horse.
A blind horse goes straightforward.
A young doctor makes a full graveyard.
No house without a mouse, no barn without corn, no rose without a thorn.
The main thing is that we can smile at our duties -- yes even at our suffering.
The biter is sometimes bit.
Cease your snow balls casting.
A blind man needs no looking glass.
He who doesn't find is way back from the forest gets lost within it.
When you think you have the wind at your back, that's when you'll be disappointed.
No hair so small but has his shadow.
So not roast all your corn in the winter.
Pleasure is created. Sins are absolved. Life is rejuvenated.
The mountain labored and brought forth a mouse.
From the tree of silence hands the fruit of tranquility.
A man who lets his problems get the better of him is like a man who divorces his wife the first time she makes him angry.
Better one today, than two tomorrow.
If the sun said it had power over the moon then let it come and shine at night.
When there is little bread at table put plenty on your plate.
The belly teaches all arts.
Losses make us more cautious.
The husband's mother is the wife's devil.
No good building without good foundation.
Changing one's mind is more often a sign of prudence than of ignorance.
He that would have the kernel must crack the shell.
Woe to the high spirited bride whose mother-in-law is still alive.
A mosquito can make the lion's eye bleed.
If you stoop to see your neighbour's anus, then your own anus is wide open for others to see, even more easily and clearly.
Fate throws fortune, but not everyone catches.
When you come back from a trip bring something for the family.
An ass endures his burden, but not more than his burden.
Utu, the lord who loves justice, extirpates wickedness and prolongs righteousness.
When the tale of bricks is doubled, then comes Moses.
If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; if he kills, the earth hides it.
The threatener sometimes gets a beating.
To be poor is not a sin, it's better to avoid it anyway.
Let never sorrow come sae near your heart.
Save three pieces of gold and the fourth one will fall into your lap.
A man who pays respect to the great paves the way for his own greatness.
Old men and travellers may lie by authority.
The wicked even hate vice in others.
No more wine, no conversation, no more money, no friends.
The horse has four legs, still the stumbles.
He who tickles himself can laugh when he pleases.
The best way to kill time is to work it to death.
What's good is often forgotten; what's bad is often hidden.
A pit of the tongue cannot be covered up by the hand.
If your mouth were a knife, it would cut off your lips.
Season resembles not season.
There are two sides to every story.
The hurrying mouse falls into the milk.
We must take the bitter with the better.
Love is love no matter whence it comes or in what form.
Having achieved your purpose, seek not to undo what has been done.
Instead of complaining that the rosebush is full of thorns, be happy that the thorn bush has roses.
Even an ass loves to hear himself bray.
Make a bridge of silver for the flying enemy.
He who is near the church is often far from God.
What good is faith if you don't live by it.
A blow from a frying-pan blacks, though it may not hurt.
The greatest and rarest talent is to love everything good.
Every gypsy prises his own horse.
The camel is also large, but it is also brought to its knees and loaded.
A boisterous horse must have a rough bridle.
He who has an axe does not lack firewood.
As good merchant tines as wins.
To set fire to the wood, you need the help of the wind.
Inferior men do not begin undertakings for fear of difficulties. Average men begin, but desist once difficulties appear. Men of superior nature never give up until they achieve their ends, however many the difficulties that appear.
The baby that refuses its mother's breast, will never be full.
There is no such thing as a pretty good omelet.
He who envies does not see.
He who cannot revenge himself is weak, he who will not is contemptible.
You must be strong to pull a rope against a stronger.
A much prayed for defunct goes straight to hell.
Some people prefer liquor, others prefer tofu, and some even like rotten salmon.
For a new sin, a new penance.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
The hyena does not forget where it has hidden its kill.
Nothing must be done hastily but killing of fleas.
Never step over one duty to perform another.
Tell your affairs in the market-place, and one will call them black and another white.
When three people call you an ass, put on a bridle.
Dead men do not bite.
The devil dances nowhere as much as between a couple.
The river is my brother for it carries my canoe.
To fall out of the frying-pan into the fire.
Who has, is.
You hold an eel by the tail.
If we pay for the music we will join in the dance.
A silent mouth is musical.
Thrust not thy finger in a fool's mouth.
Through thick and thin, both over bank and bush.
Give graciously - even an onion.
When your friend gives your wife an expensive present, it's time to get suspicious.
It is good to wait for a man that is alive.
No wonder lasts more than three days.
An eel held by the tail is not yet caught.
No one ought to be judge in his own cause.
Even a thief takes ten years to learn his trade.
An ailing woman lives forever.
The generous can forget that they have given, but the grateful can never forget that they have received.
Do not show your teeth until you can bite.
Little snakes need to grow in hiding.
You surely will get the debt from a living person.
The bones of Hua and his company are dry in the sun.
Tapping persistently breaks the stone.
The child who loves freedom is the first victim of it.
Home is where you hang your hat.
A fool finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions.
He who treads on eggs, must tread lightly.
A lounging lizard catches no crickets.
Nothing can exist long without occasional rest.
Autumn is the hush before winter.
Her beauty is the only dowery a beautiful girl needs.
Going beyond is as bad as falling short.
I can chew for you, my child, but you must swallow by yourself.
If you ever need a helping hand you'll find one at the end of your arm.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
Only when you have crossed the river, can you say the crocodile.
If you hate your ancestors then assume your dead than you will love the hereafter.
Fire with seasoned wood and work with flexible people are easy.
The pensioner gets the wages of the death.
Dogs will red swine.
Thorns bury shallowly into one who walks slowly. Thorns bury deeply into one who walks fast.
It is a lazy man who says "it is only because I have no time that my farm is overgrown with weeds".
Do not give the dog bread every time he wags his tail.
The way of a liar is short.
It is worse to excuse than to offend.
The goats pasture with bells hanging from their necks in order not to stray.
Beauty is potent, but money is omnipotent.
Every head is a world.
Avoid evil and it will avoid thee.
He who does no evil does a lot of good.
One lie can fill a sack; a second will empty it again.
He who would be happy should stay at home.
You can hide a mark on your skin, but not a defect.
A willow before the wind.
If everyone is going to dance, who, then, would watch?
In war, hunting, and love you suffer a thousand pains for one pleasure.
He that is bald headed has no need of combs.
People live with their own idiosyncrasies and die of their own illnesses.
A woman without is she who has neither pipe nor child.
When nought comes to aught, it does not know itself.
Riches abuse them who know not how to use them.
The boy ain't drunk but has slippery shoes.
He is looking out for a fig.
What johnny will not teach himself, johnny will never know.
It is the end of the shahnameh that is pleasant.
Behind the gentle barb lies the deadly barb.
The hole the crab digs takes on the shape of its shell.
Not all are asleep who have their eyes shut.
I would know your gift by your graciousness.
If fools were to eat no bread, corn would be cheap.
An idiot is eloquent when he stays silent.
Joke at leisure, ye kenna wha may jybe you.
The soul will only be at rest when it stops hoping.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
In war, lies are as abundant as dirt.
One fool praises another.
Raindrops come heavy on a house unthatched.
There's no bad without the good.
One who always depends on his brother will die poor.
The maker of laws must be severe; who executes them must be generous.
A girl without a mother is like a mountain with no paths.
Twa fools in a house are a couple o'er mony.
There is no winter for who has remained in his mother's womb.
Kings and bears aft worry their keepers.
One can do anything, only will is needed.
Water is muddy at the fountainhead.
He steps out of the line.
Mock the palm tree only when the date harvest is over.
Falling hurts least those who fly low.
The deaf laugh twice.
When the water rises, the fish eat the ants; when the water falls, the ants eat the fish.
Each head its sentence.
In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty, In time of adversity, not one amongst twenty.
January chicks fill the hen house, August chicks fill the baskets.
Pray for revenge, and God will turn a deaf ear.
The work tests the workman.
"No rule without exception.”.
Kill a chicken before a monkey.
Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth.
A bad reaper never gets a good sickle.
He falls on his back and breaks his nose.
Not all that glitters is gold.
Where there is discipline there is virtue; where there is peace there is plenty.
Even without drumbeats, the banana leaves dance.
Complete idiot who can keep silent, to a wise man is similar.
Be aware of the idiot, for he is like an old dress.
One living pope is better than ten dead.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
Dig the hoe in well in the vineyard and pull out the bad growth and the weed.
A small fire that warms you, is better than a large one that burns you.
The first time you cheat me, be ashamed. The second time it is I who must be ashamed.
The diamond cannot be polished without friction, nor the man perfected without trials.
It is like throwing bur on a gourd.
He who builds by the roadside has many masters.
A fat man is worthless in the fields.
To forget a strong man who could help you is the same as to scorn him.
A thorn has a small point, but the person who feels it does not forget its sting.
He who once ventures to lie, deserves no more confidence.
There is no loss, which is not a gain for somebody.
A strong man never stays long in the ground.
Friendship lasts as long as the pot boils.
Eyes that you have made cry, cry; so it's no wonder if they tear.
The saint who works no cures has few pilgrims to his shrine.
March cold reaches even bull's horns.
Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition.
A sillerless man gangs fast thraugh the market.
Love is sweet in the beginning but sour in the ending.
James Kelly (1818). A Complete Collection of Scottish Proverbs Explained and Made Intelligible to the English Reader. Rodwell and Martin. p. 43.
Oh whirlwind, I dispatched you towards Agade. What did you accomplish in Agade? The dream was favourable!
Full cup, steady hand.
The world is an ocean of tears.
He who waits till an opportunity occurs may wait for ever.
Learning is fine clothes for the rich man, and riches for the poor man.
Where the sea goes let the sands go.
A person who travels knows a great deal.
Wet your finger in tar and soon it is all over you.
They are not dead who live in the hearts they leave behind.
One butcher fears not many sheep.
A book tightly shut is but a block of paper.
Nobility is less esteemed when it lacks wealth.
If you eat all your harvest, you won't have seed for tomorrow.
The black man steals just half of very little, but the white man steals the whole sugar plantation.
Even children of the same mother look different.
Great men think alike.
He that would have a beautiful wife should choose her on a Saturday.
The earth is God's bride -- she feeds the living and cherishes the dead.
There is a season for all things.
Evil does are evil dreaders.
Rules were meant to be broken.
As if it weren't bad enough to fall, the ladder lands on top of you.
The heaviest rains fall on the house that leaks most.
Never buy a pig in a poke.
Walking over corpses.
The sheep that bleat the most give the least milk.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
When arguing with a chicken a grain of corn is always wrong.
Lying can get you a wife, but it won't keep her.
Unskilfull mediciners and horse-marshels slayes both man and beast.
There is reason in the roasting of eggs.
The best cause requires a good champion.
A sick man sleeps, but not a debtor.
He that after sinning mends, recommends himself to god.
If at home you receive no visitors, then abroad you will have no host.
Prepare the umbrella before it rains.
The neighbor teaches the neighbor to live at home.
Man is preceded by forest and followed by desert.
Harsh is the voice which would dismiss us, but sweet is the sound of welcome.
Poverty is not a vice.
Eyes are the mirror of mind.
The eye can see it, but the tooth can't bite it.
Quhat better is the house that the Daw rises in the morning.
In his heart a man may plan his course but God determines his every step.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try, try again.
Monday is the key day of the week.
Were it not for hope the heart would break.
When the rabbit has escaped, comes advice.
He gives well and bountifully who accompanies the gift with a pleasing look.
Even a small mouse has anger.
You are striking cold iron.
Get a good name and go to sleep.
A traveller does not make a mess where he had made a camp as he might one day come back.
He who doesn't look ahead gets left behind.
Even a dog knows the difference between being stumbled over and being kicked.
A man of good natural plain common sense.
That you don't give birth too, you let him or her carry a stone on the head.
One cannot ski so softly that the tracks cannot be seen.
A spoken word is not a sparrow. Once it flies out, you can't catch it.
Long on hair, short on brains.
Better walk before a hen than behind an ox.
Who suffers because of love, feels no pain.
He who has a hundred and one pesos, and owes a hundred and two, let him commend himself to god.
Enjoy yourself; for there is nothing in the world we can call our own.
Who leaves no traces in the field, will be put to shame at harvest.
Who has been burned once is afraid of fire.
Where you were born is less important than how you live.
The enemy's own punishment is his envy.
A fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man overlooks an insult.
Better a bad harvest than a bad neighbor.
It is easy to be born, it is difficult to be a human being.
I know on which side my bread is buttered.
Jaybird don't rob his own nest.
It is good to lend to God and to the soil--they pay good interest.
Friends for a meal are easy to find, friends until end of life are difficult to find.
What the farmer doesn't recognize, he doesn't eat.
The dog's kennel is no place to keep a sausage.
A gloved Cat was never a good Hunter.
Water in the mouth before eating; water in the eyes when the bill comes.
We judge others by their acts, but ourselves by our intentions.
"Fie upon thee, how black thou art!" said the kettle to the saucepan.
Every dog thinks of his own fleas as gazelles.
Grain by grain the hen fills her crop.
Words butter not parsnips.
Wine is one thing, drunkenness another.
No branch is better than its trunk.
The have always returns to her form.
Though you teach a wolf the paternoster, he will say "Lamb! Lamb!"
After a storm comes a calm.
What butter and whiskey won't cure, there is no cure for.
We conquer and are conquered in our turn.
Every man is a prince in his own bed.
Boast not of tomorrow, for you know not what the day may bring forth.
A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple.
Lilly axe can cut down big tree.
one swallow does not herald the coming of spring.
To scare a bird is not the way to catch it.
When the snake is in the house, one need not discuss the matter at length.
It is all one whether you die of sickness or of love.
However poor the elephant, it will be worth more than ten frogs.
Every fool follows their idea.
A single penny fairly got, is worth a thousand that are not.
A heart free from care is better than a full purse.
Think first your idea, for later regrets are useless.
It is not every one who takes the right sow by the ear.
Honey catches most flies.
I rest, therefore I rust.
The love goes through the stomach.
If the rhythm of the drumbeats changes, the dance steps must adapt.
He that is embarked with the devil must sail with him.
You buy yourself an enemy when you lend a man money.
He who hesitates, regrets.
People often change and seldom for the better.
There is an exception to every rule.
A mule driver is not aware of the stink of his animals.
The best way to keep loyalty in a man's heart is to keep money in his purse.
The timid ox drinks muddy water.
Let the water you cannot drink flow by.
Don't marry a girl who wants strawberries in January.
What is done cannot be undone.
Empty barrels give the most sound.
The goat's business is not the sheep's business.
Good nature without prudence is foolishness.
There is no day that goes without the moon and no day that goes without sunrise and sunset.
When the slave is to blame the slave gets beaten; when the master is to blame the slave gets beaten.
I took the abandoned boy to be my son, but he became my husband.
You will hate a beautiful song if you sing it often.
Every fox praises its tail.
Do not eat the fingers that feed you.
It is better to leap over the ditch than trust to the pleadings of good men.
All women are alike when the lamp is out.
To make the tea cloudy.
You have spoilt the wine by adding water to it.
A fully grown up tree cannot be bent into a walking stick.
Making money is like digging with a needle.
A blind man would be glad to see.
A palm tree growing in the shade will not bear ripe fruit.
A lawyer looks at you with one eye, but he looks at your pocket with two.
The morning rainbow reaches the fountains; the evening rainbow fills the sails.
To run is not neccessarily to arrive.
When herring mauger him bone show.
No matter how rich a man may be he cannot sleep on two beds at ago.
She fries in her own grease.
A man without passion is no son of Adam.
Strive to be that which you want to appear to be.
The voice that comes to borrow is more humble than the voice that comes to sake payment.
Come a little closer when your sword is too short.
If you want to clear the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away.
Those who try to deceive may expect to be paid in their own coin.
The surface of the water is beautiful, but it is no good to sleep on.
The conquered dare not open their mouths.
When the head of the family dies, that family breaks up.
Great thieves hang little thieves.
I have a lot to say, said the fish, but my mouth is full of water.
One does not follow the footprints in the water.
For a voracious beast pebbles in his feed.
Your mind is like a parachute; it only works when it's open.
It is easy to open a store -- the hard part is keeping it open.
In the broken nest there are no whole eggs.
Out of sight,out of hearth.
He is a man that looks after maney as ‘njuu' looks after locusts.
What a cow eats a calf drinks.
Hunting, hawking, and paramours, for one joy an hundred displeasures.
Close sits my shirt, but closer my skin.
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.
The trick the father has, the son has.
Old reckonings breed new disputes.
Better wise language than well combed hair.
As the old crow sing, so sings its fledglings.
Do not correct with a strike that which can be taught with a kiss.
You must scale the mountain if you want to view the plain.
Praise is the hire of virtue.
A big log is a shame to the fire, an evil person is a shame to the house.
It would blow the horns off a goat.
The thief who has no opportunity to steal thinks he is an honest man.
The nail that sticks up will be hammered down. (Whatling, 2009) From the Japanese, "deru kugi wa utareru."
Money is the root of all evil.
A good cause finds weapons to defend it.
Don't beat the drums of war unless you're ready to fight.
He who does not collect in summer, will heat little in winter.
Smoke, rain, and a scolding wife, are three bad things in a house.
When the ass is too happy he begins dancing on the ice.
If he was any good, his name would be Kheirollah.
Stand away from a horse's heels.
Better to be an ant's head than a lion's tail.
God helps them that help themselves.
Sweep the house with a broom in may and you'll sweep the luck of the house away.
One who knows everything at times draws water with a basket.
The end of the corsair is to drown.
Fat is not to be had without labour.
Desire nothing that would bring disgrace.
A beggar is never out of his road.
If more people say you're wrong, don't insist saying you're right.
Who can't bite should not bare his teeth.
Give a naked man a piece of cloth and he will say it is too thick.
Where drums beat, laws are dumb.
If the young man would and the old man could, there would be nothing undone.
Clean around your own back door before you clean around someone else's.
Today is a good day to die.
Keep your friends close and the Quebecois closer.
Two bears don't live in one cave.
Our wasted days are the days we never laugh.
Drinking with a bosom friend, a thousand shots are too few; Talking with a disagreeable person, half a sentence is too many.
When there is killing weather, the dogs grow fat, when there is.
Observe with the eyes; listen with the ears; shut the mouth.
The evil everyone does lives after him or her.
Where is well with me, there is my country.
Happy the marriage where the husband is the head and the wife the heart.
Once bitten. Twice shy.
He is guilty who is not at home.
If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in the character. If there is beauty in the character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
Spit in the sky, it falls in your eye.
Absence is the enemy of love; as the distance is from the eyes, so it is from the heart.
A man of straw needs a woman of gold.
In the lake of lies there are many dead fish.
Lack of bread forces one to work.
The frog saw how the horses were shod, so she also lifted up her foot.
Too hasty burned his lips.
In reviling, it is not necessary to prepare a preliminary draft.
God gives the cold according to the cloth.
They may whip me in the market-place, so it be not known at home.
Many cakes are beautiful on the surface, but have crappy fillings.
Anger and hate hinder good counsel.
The mills of god grind slowly, yet they grind exceedingly small.
Were I a hatter, men would come into the world without heads.
It is meet that a man be at his own bridal.
There is no bad patience.
It is at home, not in public, that one washes his dirty linen.
If the mountain will not go to Mohammed, Mohammed will go to mountain.
The voice of the people is louder than the boom of a canon.
Money can build roads in the sea.
The cunning wife makes her husband her apron.
It dies and rises like the moon.
Honour your father and your mother.
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.
When the belly is full, the talk is good.
A tree isn't felled with one stroke.
The sat one doesn't understand the hungry one: for one the soup is too thin, for the other - the pearls are too small.
The ceiling won't stay when the room is no longer there.
Drop by drop wears away the stone.
Jealousy and fear have big eyes.
It's better not to rise at all than to rise and fall.
Every one thinks he has more than his share of brains.
An ill Cook would have a good Cleaver.
In the country of the blind blessed is he that hath one eye.
Empty barrels make the most noise.
Saving mustard seeds in hand, while a watermelon escapes.
Three remedies of the physicians of myddfal: water, honey, and labour.
Does your neighbour love you? Lend him a sequin.
Light winning makes a heavy purse.
A curious woman is capable of turning around the rainbow just to see what is on the other side.
Who lends his lips to nought but blame, has in his heart no love of fame.
One cannot draw blood from a turnip.
It is a proud horse that will not bear his own provender.
A fat cow makes a thin calf.
Better visit hell in your lifetime than after you're dead.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod.
Conversation is like making love; the man is the question, the woman the answer, and the union of both will bear fruit.
It is folly to gape against an oven.
Life is sweet.
He who never knows where is coming from will never know where he is going.
He that takes too great a leap falls into the ditch.
Happy hours are very short.
It is the one who lies by a fire who feels the heat.
God cures and the physician takes the fee.
There belongs mair to a bed nor four bare leggs.
It is easier to make a lady of a peasant-girl than a peasant-girl of a lady.
It will heal well before your wedding.
We went as fools and came back as arch-fools.
In order to succeed, we attack.
Wake not a sleeping dog.
He who plays with a sword plays with the devil.
The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom. (William Blake)
There is a remedy for everything but death.
In New England we have nine months of winter and three months of darned poor sledding.
Who builds something, had better count two dollars for one.
A needle cannot hold two threads or a mind two thoughts.
Draw water from the new well, but do not spit in the old one.
Fortune and misfortune are two buckets in the same well.
There is no point in living if we cannot take back our culture.
You may poke a man's fire after you've known him for seven years.
A rabbit aims for the moon.
Foul water slokens fire.
A man gains nothing by vain glory but contempt and hatred.
Loving and singing are two things that should not be forced.
A full cup must be carried steadily.
Music speaks louder than words.
Kindness is greater than law.
Where wine enters sense leaves.
It's better to be poor, than to live alone.
God finds a low branch for the bird that cannot fly.
Who blackens others, does not whiten himself.
An enterprizing foole needs little wit.
For the diligent, a week has seven days; for the slothful, seven tomorrows.
Bad news travels fast.
Money is round, it must roll.
A blind leader of the blind.
A flag on a mud barge.
Don't notice the tiny flea in the other person's hair and overlook the lumbering yak on your own nose.
A dog that has been bitten by a snake, fears the sausage.
He who asks a question may be a fool for five minutes; he who asks no questions stays a fool forever.
When a cow is crying, a dog is making a party.
One who lives within his means can be said to be rich.
A quarrel is like buttermilk: once it's out of the churn, the more you shake it, the more sour it grows.
People helping one another can bring an elephant into the house.
A pessimist, confronted with two bad choices, chooses both.
A bashful beggar will have an empty wallet.
A greedy father has thieves for children.
Women, wind, and fortune, soon change.
A leader does not rise for a squirrel.
A friend is someone you share the path with.
A man who has committed a mistake and doesn't correct it is committing another mistake.
It is honourable to be accused by those who deserve to be accused.
A healthy person who begs for food is an insult to a generous farmer.
The purpose consecrates the means.
If you have ground nuts in your room expect rats.
Don't look back when you are walking along the edge of a wall.
As long as there are fools in the world, no one will be penniless.
Crows are black everywhere.
Every one feels his own burden heavy.
See how the boy is with his sister and the other ones of his home lodge and you can know how the man will be with your daughter.
Act in the valley so that you need not fear those who stand on the hill.
When there is on a red-hot hoe, it is not grasped.
You may laugh at a friend's roof; don't laugh at his sleeping accommodation.
If you are going to drown, do not try it in shallow water.
He who does not bait his hook catches nothing.
Since love departs at dawn, create, O God, a night that has no morn.
Give me today and you may keep tomorrow.
Foolish tongues talk by the dozen.
The merchant that loses cannot laugh.
High places have their precipices.
The army of the palm tree is its branches.
Thanks cost nothing.
Everyone gets argr as he gets older.
There is no fool who has not his own kind of sense.
Never wear a brown hat in Friesland.
God conceals himself from the mind of man, but reveals himself to his heart.
Length begets loathing.
In foreign countries money goes by the way.
You cannot run and scratch your ass at the same time.
With time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
A red sky means either water or wind; if it doesn't rain, it will be fair weather.
Lose your temper and you lose a friend; lie and you lose yourself.
Knowledge without practice makes but half an artist.
Uglier than magic.
One lawsuit begets another.
Advertising is the mother of trade.
Ride slower – get further.
Sweat makes good mortar.
Pretty wife, old wine -- many friends.
The sparrow feels comfortable on the thorn bush.
Caution is the parent of delicate beer-glasses.
The nest is enough for a wren.
Greedy eaters dig their graves with their teeth.
Hell must be in bad condition when even the devil stays out.
Don't hang your hat higher than you can reach.
The son of the God of thunder does not die of lightning.
A teacher is better than two books.
He who wants a new world must first buy the old.
Used recklessly then s/he must have inherited the misused property.
That smells bad, said the cat about meat that it cannot reach.
When a miller fights with a chimney sweep, the miller gets black and the chimney sweep gets white.
A long lasting visitor grinds the wine.
A woman like a sheep, an affable friendly woman.
Don't sell eggs in the bottom of hens.
Hills far away are green but they often have sour bottoms.
First do your task, then talk about it.
Better return half way than lose yourself.
The liar's house burned, but nobody believed it.
Old Satan couldn't get along without plenty of help.
The slow hound often has good qualities.
A solitary ox shits more than a hundred swallows.
You are a chief because of your people.
I pointed out the stars and moon to you, but all you saw was the tip of my finger.
While we consider when to begin, it becomes too late.
Behind the clouds the sky is always blue.
I am in a fix.
If the rope is weak, pull gently.
When there is no enemy it is safe to fight.
He is a sorry barber who has but one comb.
Truth is violated by a lie or by silence.
Goo tool means half the work.
See with your mind, hear with your heart.
Who made the drum knows best what is inside.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1044)
Your words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village.
When a good offer comes for your daughter, don't wait till her father returns from market.
Measure thrice, cut once.
Don't worry about the weather or the government.
When in doubt who will win, be neutral.
Law is a lickpenny.
Who suffers will have no regrets.
The tortoise stores its wisdom in his shell.
If the tree doesn't bear fruit, cut it off at the base.
Every straw is a thorn at night.
There is no answer for God out of my house, and What have you to do with my wife?
When the thief has stolen from a thief, God laughs in heaven.
Get three darkovans together and they hold a dance.
The chameleon changes color to match the earth, the earth doesn't change color to match the chameleon.
A sharp tooth for hard bread.
The more knave, the better luck.
The smile of a rose uplifts the nightingale.
A pretty person looks pretty in every clothing.
Who is soft will be sat on.
The tears running down your face do not blind you.
It is the mind that wins or loses.
Neither a good friar for friend, nor a bad one for enemy.
In large rivers one finds big fish but one may also be drowned.
Regard Heaven as your father, Earth as your Mother and all things as your Brothers and Sisters.
Pride goes only as far as one can spit.
Arrange your cloak as the wind blows.
Welcome to my garden.
The early bird catches the first worm.
Man is like pepper -- you only know him when you've ground him.
Lo does not thank for little will thank for much.
In Morocco never be surprised. If you see a donkey flying, just say Allah is capable of anything.
He who slanders his neighbor makes a rod for his own back.
The young may die, the old must die.
If you don't want flour on your shoes, don't go into the mill.
Time flies when you're having fun.
Don't go to Turku, there they'll cut your throat!
Neither trust or contend, nor lay wagers or lend, and you'll have peace to your end.
In much corn is some cockle.
If you never climb Mt. Fuji, you're a fool, and if you climb it more than once, you're a crazy fool.
May kabul be without gold rather without snow.
Sometimes the rain might force a man more than once to seek shelter under the same tree.
What will kill a dog first blocks its nose.
The one who does not risk anything does not gain nor lose.
A bow that is bent too far will break.
If you marry a monkey for its wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains.
A cunning man likes the company of a fool.
Quickly, quickly because the wax is melting.
More observant than a crow.
If you live in a glass house, don't throw stones.
Better bend than break.
In the dark all cats and all girls are beautiful.
Great hate follows great love.
Love yourself; get outside yourself and take action. focus on the solution; be at peace.
Proverbs cannot be contradicted.
Give a piece to the raven and he'll come again.
Vice is often clothed in virtue's habit.
A tea cup on the edge of a well.
Cherish youth, but trust old age.
Every day has its evening.
One funeral makes many.
Wealth gars wit waver.
The best defence is to attack.
Who does nothing can do nothing wrong.
When the corsair promises masses and candles, it goes ill with the galley.
Common sense ain't common.
He, who does not seize opportunity today, will be unable to seize tomorrow's opportunity.
None so busy as those who do nothing.
What the soldier said isn't evidence.
Buy what you have no need of and ere long you shall sell your necessaries.
Hope supports men in distress.
Choose her for her beauty and even choose her without a dowry because from her beauty you'll get pleasure.
Too much courtesy, too much craft.
In space, comes Grace.
Even the best cooking pot will not produce food.
To run is not necessarily to arrive.
Don't cough in a hiding place.
Blood cannot be washed out with blood.
The bad refrain from sin from fear of punishment.
The sooner you get in, the sooner you get out.
If you put a razor in your mouth, you will spit blood.
Do not throw pearls to swine.
A liar must have a good memory.
Derive the oil of a wall.
Even the dog leaves the market.
Virtue comes not from chance but long study.
Despise not a small wound, a poor kinsman, or an humble enemy.
If you start thinking of death, you are no longer sure of life.
He who wills the end, wills the means.
He that hears much and speaks not at all Shall be welcome both in bower and hall.”.
It is ill prizing of green barley.
It is below the bottom of a frog.
No man's a prophet in his own land.
Talking is easier than doing, and promising than performing.
Hunger is good Kitchen.
Who would not have feet set on his neck, let him not stoop.
Say what you have to say, tomorrow.
United we stand, divided we fall.
Virtue never dies.
Grief shared is half grief; joy shared is double joy.
When in doubt, do nought.
It will be all one a thousand years hence.
The stomach is easier filled than the eye.
Kin or no kin, woe to him who has nothing.
The horse chained to the feeding trough and the mare in the thicket.
Good news is rumored and bad news flies.
There is no god like the throat: it takes sacrifices daily.
Proud as a beggar from Pori.
It is best to bite into the sour apple.
Such mother, such daughter.
Happiness does not give, it only lends.
With a good name one may sin easily.
Don't throw out the old pot until you have the tinker makes a new one.
Spare well and have to spend.
A heart never created hatred; speech created hatred.
Eggs are put to hatch on a chance.
Pity without help does little good.
If you want happiness for an hour, take a nap. If you want happiness for a day, go fishing. If you want happiness for a month, get married. If you want happiness for a year, inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime, help someone else.
She'll keep her ain side o the hoose, an gang up an doun yours.
When everyone takes care of himself, care is taken of all.
No hero without a wound.
Don't trust a hungry man to watch your rice.
Wood may remain ten years in the water, but it will never become a crocodile.
Learning expands great souls.
He who begins a conversation does not foresee the end.
The poor always smell.
He appreciates prosperity who is caught in calamity.
No one is a good judge of his own case.
Serve even an unbeliever to attain your own ends.
In the midst of our mirth some annoyance always arises to vex us.
Love is like a cucumber, it starts off sweet and ends up bitter.
Does your neighbor bore you? Lend him some money.
He who instigates good deeds is greater than the one who performs them.
Every flood has its ebb.
A newly committed crime awakens sleeping ones.
I travel the river of blood.
When the old man falls, don't laugh, the young have also fallen.
Advise and counsel him; if he does not listen, let adversity teach him.
One who does not travel will not know that value of men.
Better never to begin than never to make an end.
To scrape the light off one's face.
An ignorant consent is no consent.
Faith is action.
For a wife and a horse go to your neighbour.
Pity the stranger, even if he is rich.
Do more things by wisdom than by force.
Anger brings damage.
The eye will often wander the road that love has taught.
Better is an ass that carries you than a horse that throws you.
Age and marriage tame man and beast.
Truth's best ornament is nakedness.
A hungry ass keeps her kicking end down.
Make good flour and you need no trumpet.
Whichever son is able should bury his father. The first son did not kill him.
The palest ink lasts longer than the most retentive memory.
Before borrowing money from a friend decide which you need most.
A fool does not need any bells.
Putting a withe around sand. Compare the English "a rope of sand.”.
Many can pack the cards that cannot play.
This is a stubborn and proud nation.
To know the law and do the right are two things.
A little injury dismays, and a great one stills.
An empty house is better than a bad tenant.
Unused iron is ruined by rust.
There is no flower that lasts ten days and no might lasts ten years.
A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home.
Men prefer the wife of another but love their own sons more.
He who fears something gives it power over him.
When the mother goat breaks into the yam store her kid watches her.
Each man's character shapes his fortunes.
Brides and mothers-in-law are like dogs and monkeys.
Though a cage may be made of gold, it is still a cage.
Praising is not loving.
Those who think there too big to do little things are perhaps to small to do big things.
Black sheep of the family.
An ugly girl blames the mirror.
There is no helping him who will not be advised.
Tread on the ball, live to spend all.
Nothing is so full of victory as patience.
It is not enough for a man to know how to ride, he must also know how to fall.
Nothing is given as easily as advice.
The butterfly becomes only when it's entirely ready.
A mother-in-law made of sugar, still tastes bitter.
The one with a running nose always wants to blow someone else's.
Girl, your brother is like me. A brother should let you live as would I.
Where one door is shut another opens.
‘hurry' and ‘well' never go hand in hand.
Three times an early rise makes a whole day.
A man's first care should be to avoid the reproaches of his own heart, his next to escape the censures of the world.
Diligence is the beginning of brilliance.
From middle age on, everything of interest is either illegal, immoral or fattening.
Nothing venture, nothing have.
You can always tell a drunkard by his actions.
Though your enemy is the size of an ant, look upon him as an elephant.
The world is like an old building on the banks of a stream – it carries away piece by piece; in vain you stop it with a handful of earth.
In youth, one has tears without grief; in age, grief without tears.
The wind of heaven is that which blows between the horses ears.
Living life is not like just crossing a field.
‘Tis too late to spare when the pocket is bare.
Old foxes are hard to catch.
We ain't what we want to be; we ain't what we gonna be; but thank God, we ain't what we was.
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
The trees with most leaves will not necessarily produce juicy fruit.
Do not measure the timbers for your house in the forest.
Wit is more often a shield than a lance.
I need not fear my enemies because the most they can do is attack me. I need not fear my friends because the most they can do is betray me. But I have much to fear from people who are indifferent.
There is nary a feast or a party without a monk or a priest.
Prying with sidelong glance into other people's business.
Better to sell with regret than to keep with regret.
Every vine must have its stake.
The master's eye makes the animals fat.
Servants make the worst masters.
Buy good quality and sell at the market price.
Lazy people will eventually lose even their trousers.
No klingon ever breaks his word.
The hand that gives is also the one that receives.
Brute strength is not the most important asset in a fight.
A single kind word keeps one warm for three winters.
They laugh well who laugh last.
Genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains.
Do you want to make the mute speak? Get rid of his troubles.
If I keep a green bough in my heart, then the singing bird will come.
The crow is clever, but looks at what it eats.
He who does the wrong forgets it, but not he who receives it.
Warm bed, cold food.
The elephant dies, but his tusks remain.
The friends of our friends are our friends.
When your house is on fire you don't choose who to help you put out the fire.
Luck is a lost jewel that memory grinds.
It is not the greatest beauties that inspire the most profound passion.
Service is greatness.
Long hair, short wit.
Paper and ink and little justice.
After all is said and done, more is said than done.
Choose your woman with a velvet glove, but control her with a fist of iron.
A deer is an elder to its family.
If thy strength will serve, go forward in the ranks; if not, stand still.
Don't let a fool kiss you no let a kiss fool you.
Do good and throw it into the sea - if it is not appreciated by an ungrateful man, it will be appreciated by God.
Don't cry holloa! till you're out of the bush.
God counts her tears.
A ragged colt may make a handsome horse.
He, who more than he is worth doth spend, E'en makes a rope, his life to end.
He plaints early that plaints on his kail.
From a silent man, and a dog that does not bark, deliver us.
The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey will seem.
A man coming from far away tells us what he wants.
A man's greed is like a snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
Of little cloth but a short cloak.
Our proverbs are sacred and correct.
Tears have meaning but only he who sheds them understands.
He that has a hawk has three hundred partridges.
No matter how small a pin can be a hen cannot swallow it.
Success in the end erases all the mistakes along the way.
If you want a certain thing, you must first be a certain person. Once you are that certain person, obtaining that certain thing will no longer be a concern of yours.
The anger of kings is always serious.
Where there's a senior the minor yields, said the chick in the cage.
The fool passes for wise if he is silent.
He, who differs, ends up losing.
Whatever accomplishment you boast of in the world, there is someone better than you.
Rather weigh the will of the speaker, than the worth of the words.
Don't have the appetite of Miss Julia who, when she had meat, wanted chick peas.
It has been blowing hard--the dirt has been blown into high places.
All is never said.
The hand assists the foot, but the foot cannot do the same.
A man's word is his honour.
It is easy to go on foot if you are holding your horse by the rein.
A drunkard can be a sheep, a monkey or a lion.
What's of no use is too dear at a gift.
Let the guest come so that the host may benifit.
Finding's keeping.
The sun is still beautiful, though ready to set.
The hawk with talent hides its talons.
Fleying a bird is not the gate to grip it.
Who works achieves and who sows reaps.
Where there are stones the brook babbles.
What is bought is cheaper than a gift.
Greed will cause pain.
O man, you who do not live a hundred years, why fret a thousand minutes?
If human would be an animal Jussi would be the first to put away, said Honkavaari.
If you put out another's candle, you also will be in the dark.
Something that doesn't talk how does it refuse.
Brooding may be very far from knowing.
Mind your own business.
If the rhythm of the drum beat changes, the dance step must adapt.
Truth is scraped out even by a hen.
Look for the good, not the evil, in the conduct of members of the family.
A little gall make a great deal of honey bitter.
Hopes delayed hang the heart upon tenter-hooks.
You can't flee your lot nor share it with another.
Porridge is food for the toothless.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
The world is governed with little brains.
The hazelnut emerged from its shell and did not like the look of it.
What is lighter than a feather? The wind! Lighter than the wind? The spirit! Lighter than the spirit? The woman! Lighter than the woman? Nothing at all!
A young man married is a young man marred.
All weather is passing.
A wilful fault has no excuse, and deserves no pardon.
A sleeping fox catches no hare, chicken.
Seldom seen soon forgotten.
The truth is like gold; keep it locked up and you will find it exactly as you first put it away.
Coincidence defeats a well-laid plan.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to hell.
Being serious and having a good time thrive together.
Water teaches us to weep, wine teaches us to sing.
When the tree is fallen, every one goeth to it with his hatchet.
The spit aimed at the sky comes back to one.
Bold resolution is the favourite of providence.
Wherever you go, the sky is the same color.
Don't paint the image of a demon on a wall.
All the fruit will mature in a warm and dry September.
It is a bad game where nobody wins.
The lotus root may be severed, but its fibered threads are still connected.
Where Nature stops folly begins.
Humor is an important asset: it means understanding and self-criticism. where humor is absent, you'll find small-mindedness.
Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone.
Something done at the wrong time should be regarded as not done.
If you have no time to take care of your sickness, you get time to die.
How good at combing is the bald priest.
A communal field is ruined by the bears.
An angry man heeds no counsel.
Where something is thin, that's where it tears.
Discretion is knowing how to hide that which we cannot remedy.
Never judge a reindeer from close by when you got it from a rich man because you may find that some of the antlers are missing.
A small key opens big doors.
Believe that, and drink some water.
He doesn't see water, otherwise he is a skilled swimmer.
He who gives to the public, gives to no one.
Stolen waters are the sweetest.
Eyes are bigger than your belly.
It is by the strength of their number that the ants in the field are able to carry their prey to the nest.
Old age comes not on its own.
No one wants to remember his childhood.
If you want to know how long a man's tongue is, let him use his mouth to lick honey from a plate.
Each day you can admire the moon, the snow and the flowers.
He who digs a pit for others must invariably fall into it.
The cork is always bigger than the mouth of the bottle.
With this beard you want to go to Tajrish?
April showers bring May flowers.
The fool knows more in his own house than the sage in other men's.
It is easy to threaten a bull from a window.
If it does not trickle, it will drop.
To hunt for a hare with a tabor.
With a frog in the well you don't talk about the ocean.
Where there is negotiation, there is hope for agreement.
Misfortune does not visit the weak-hearted.
By the time the fool has learned the game, the players have dispersed.
You do not need a whip to urge on an obedient horse.
God saves the moon from the wolves.
There tends to be a black sheep in even the whitest flock.
Of everything else the newest; of friends, the oldest.
Don't climb a tree to catch a fish.
Only the pallbearers know the weight of the dead.
Check before you bite if it is bread or a stone.
Don't make a fence more expensive or more important than what it is fencing.
He is a horse with four white feet.
Let the devil get into the church, and he will mount the altar.
Don't put gold buttons on a torn coat.
Reshape one's feet to fit into new shoes.
A creaking door hangs long on its hinges.
The fear of God is the beginning of all wisdom.
Don't teach the tiger cub to eat meat.
Fortune often knocks at the door, but the fool does not invite her in.
A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study.
The abyss laughs at the plain.
If you want to gather a lot of knowledge, act as if you are ignorant.
A widow, like a widower, is a house without a roof.
Hunger teaches us many a lesson.
Hour by hour time departs.
You may boast to strangers, but tell the truth to your own people.
Facts are better than theories.
Him whom Jove would destroy he first deprives of his reason.
The church is nearby, God is far away.
Don't sail out farther than you can row back.
Repentance prolongs a man's life.
If you gladly stoop to the ground don't be surprised if they trample over you.
True courage is knowing how to suffer.
You judge the way you live.
It is better to sit with a wise man in prison than with a fool in paradise.
Visit your aunt, but not every day of the year.
This week passed on quickly, the day after tomorrow is already Wednesday, the man said.
Charity covers a multitude of sins.
A friend's eye is a good mirror.
Hunger is a spice for any meal.
Age and wedlock tame man and beast.
Asking questions is not silly.
A man will never heed the voice of a woman until it is too late.
If your corn field is far from your home, the birds will eat your corn.
Shoemaker, not above the sandal.
Strike me a light, and I'll light you.
Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest.
Never cross a bridge till you come to it.
It is not easy suddenly to cast aside a fancy long indulged in.
Except for the night, we could never know the stars.
The disgrace of the city is the fault of the citizens.
Hear the warrior cry out.
The future is not set, there is no fate but what we make for ourselves.
Buy the bed of a great debtor.
It is a good file that cuts iron without making a noise.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
Black miller and white blacksmith are shocking in front of the God.
A tarrowing bairn was never fat.
An old error is always more popular than a new truth.
I broke my leg, perhaps for my good.
When the father has eaten too much salt in his lifetime, then his son thereafter will have a great thirst.
Jupiter himself cannot please everybody.
I have learnt your language so I can damn you.
Out of a white egg often comes a black chick.
Leave the Court, ere the Court leave thee.
Don't laugh at others.
Do not be tricked into thinking that there are no crocodiles.
A short rest is always good.
He snites his nose in his neighbour's dish to get the brose himsel.
Hunger is felt by a slave, and hunger is felt by a king.
Only the snake looks at its slayer.
Every bird has a hawk above it.
A donkey's cries don't reach heaven.
Willing is a good man, but able is a better one.
Honor goes to God; the priests get the bacon.
Since we didn't say anything, he thought he could do whatever he wanted to.
If you neglect the pot, it boils over and extinguishes the fire.
Ten who shout obtain more than ten who remains silent.
A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Poverty is no joy, although it sometimes makes you laugh.
Even a fool can govern if nothing happens.
Scratching and borrowing do well enough, but not for long.
Better suffer for the truth than prosper in a falsehood.
Nothing is haste but catching flies.
Nobody will plough the land except its cows.
To be away is well and good, but home is where the heart is.
There are more ways to kill a dog than by choking him on peanut butter.
Door, I'm speaking to you. Wall, you listen.
Ugliness with a good character is better than beauty.
Even a fly has its anger.
Duty knows no family.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
There is mony a true tale tauld in jest.
At the end of the game the king and the pawn go into the same bag.
Age and wedlock bring a man to his nightcap.
Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen.
Ye may puind for debt, but not for unkindnesse.
The tongue goes to where the tooth aches.
Faith in a lord, a cap for the fool.
Befo' darg go widout supper, him nyam cockroach.
Nothing enters into a close hand.
Men and women are never placed too far apart to be near.
Take down a rogue from the gallows and he will hang you up.
In the place a donkey dies, fur remains.
One eats, another watches; that's how revolutions are born.
Silence surpasses speech.
Let us hurry and finish up the food; when visitors arrive, the meal will be over.
Hit the nail and you hit the horseshoe.
All war follow a demonstrate failure of difficulty diplomacy.
A chicken won't be grudged to a place a goose will come from.
Do it yourself sir, if you have not servant.
It is when there is a stampede, that a person with big buttocks knows that he carries a load.
All strangers are relations to each other.
Wisdom is born; stupidity is learned.
Life is like a lamp flame; it needs a little oil now and then.
The breaking of a betrothal is no small matter.
He that wants to hang a dog, says that it bites the sheep.
True generosity is the ability to accept ingratitude.
If you pull one pig by the tail all the rest squeak.
Never be content with your lot. Try for a lot more.
You cannot discover new oceans unless you have the courage to lose sight of the shore.
I refuse to fight does not mean I am a coward.
While the sun is still up, let people work that the earth may live.
Do not put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
You don't show a fool a job half done.
Friends are needed both for joy and for sorrow.
If it moves, salute it. If it doesn't move, pick it up. If you can't pick it up, paint it.
Tomorrow is another day.
Go hunting for rabbits - be eaten by wolves.
To become a father is easy, but to be a father is difficult.
You find snails on the mountain slope with the dew from the ravines.
The day of the storm is not the time for thatching your roof.
The one who does not make you happy when he arrives makes you happy when he leaves.
An oak is not felled at one stroke.
Practice makes permanent.
Step on a crack break your mother's back.
Eight [homonym 'careful attention' and 'eight'] is more than a thousand.
Even the small leopard is called leopard.
From where gets the blacksmith the knife?
There is always lots of time to die and to pay.
Love flies away and the pain remains.
Better lose the anchor than the whole ship.
Little presents maintain friendship.
Had you gotten up early, you wouldn't have needed to stay up late.
You cannot distinguish between a drunken man and a mad man until they have slept.
The olden age was never the present age.
The game isn't worth the candle.
A child's life is like a piece of paper on which every passerby leaves a mark.
One bee makes no swarm.
The skill of using a mortar and pestle never leaves one.
Six of one, and half a dozen of the other.
Eat to please thyself, but dress to please others.
Unfortunate is the man who has no fingernails to scratch his head with.
Go and wake up your cook.
Who got it, did get it; and who left it, did regret it.
Don't postpone until tomorrow, what you can do today.
He that is fallen cannot help him that is down.
The war that has no unity will make no prey.
The house with an old grandparent harbors a jewel.
Possession is as good as a title.
Between the two stools he came to the ground.
He that cannot abide a bad market deserves not a good one.
The counterfeit image of a pot with two ears.
You can have no more of the fox than his skin.
When death is near, neither doctors nor medicine help.
Don't try to cover the whole sky with the palm of your hand.
Who can master his thirst can master his health.
Dirty hands make clean money.
Herrings are quite small to be served at Christmas dinner.
One learns as long as one lives and still dies a fool.
God cures, and the doctor takes the fee.
The best time to plan a tree is 20 years ago. The second best time is now.
When a Bulgar gets rich he builds himself another house.
A picture is a poem wanting words.
A light burden's heavy if far borne.
A proud heart can survive a general failure because such a failure does not prick its pride.
The sweetest wine makes the sharpest vinegar.
By persevering the egg walks on legs.
Once you have made a fortune, know how to spend it.
One good punch on your enemy's nose, gives more pleasure than hearing well-meaning advice from your elders.
A trial between brothers has no winners or losers.
Hope for miracles, but don't rely on one.
Trade follows the flag.
A cat in her house has the teeth of a lion.
He who sows hatred shall gather rue.
A door must be either shut or open.
The skin fits closer than the shirt.
Who avoids temptation avoids sin.
Man only ever scores nine out of ten.
When a habit begins to cost money, it's called a hobby.
Where shall the ox go and not plough?
Words of snow, which fell last year.
More things grow in the garden than the gardener sows.
Nothing bolder than the miller's shirt, that every morning collars a thief.
A man who rushes into battle does not realize that battle entails death.
The church is near but the road is icy; the bar is far away but I'll walk carefully.
Rats know the way of rats.
A grateful dog has more worth than an ungrateful man.
Ignorance is the peace of life.
The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves either its handle or its spout there.
When I was young, the parents were in change, but now the children are in charge.
Between a woman's "Yes” and "No” there is no room for the point of a needle.
Women have no chief.
No one is born and no one dies before their time.
Hurry no man's cattle.
If you receive pay, you cannot sit idle and if you sit idle, you cannot receive pay.
All work is as seed sown; it grows and spreads, and sows itself anew.
You will reach your destination even though you travel slowly.
The way of knowledge is narrow.
Vice hides under a cloak of virtue.
When one work ends, begins another.
Look for wind in a field.
He who has a boss is not the master of his burden.
Where there is a herd without a bull, a castrated ox will rule.
Good things sell themselves; those that are bad have to be advertised.
The dog rages at the stone, not at him that throws it.
If charity costs nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists.
He who has not traveled thinks that his mother is the best cook in the world.
Get down on your knees and thank God you're still on your feet.
When all men say you are a dog, it is time to bark.
Even the crow sings with its own voice.
Gossip needs no carriage.
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
The man who has plenty of means of existence, conducts himself pretty much as he himself wishes.
Honey is sweet but bees sting.
Study without reflection is a waste of time; reflection without study is dangerous.
I will do anything except bear the responsibility of guarding a house that has two doors.
Who judges others, condemns himself.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away--if you have good aim.
Money is sharper than the sword. Ashanti tribe.
The teacher has not taught, until the student has learned.
He that will have a cake out of the wheat must tarry the grinding.
Many people preach righteousness and perform sins.
Beware the man who does not drink.
Avoid bawling in conversation or in play.
Every error has its excuse.
The words of God are not like the oak leaf which dies and falls to the earth, but like the pine tree which stays green forever.
Ticks and money are difficult to pluck out.
Looking for nails at low tide.
The fish does not go after the hook, but after the bait.
Of what you see, believe very little, of what you are told, nothing.
The last partridge to rise gets the most sticks thrown at it.
A dog is a dog whatever his colour.
One nail drives out another.
Four things do not let themselves be hidden: fire, mange, coughing and love.
The house of danger is built upon the borders of safety.
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.
At a dangerous passage yield precedence.
He who couldn't overcome the donkey took on the saddle.
Never let the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.
There are three faithful friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money.
Don't be a baker if your head is made of butter.
I hate fetters though they be of gold.
To err is human; to dine, divine.
It's because the rat knows what he does at night that he doesn't go out during day.
Vice is learnt without a schoolmaster.
Slow to speak, but quick to act.
Handsome cats and fat dung heaps are the sign of a good farmer.
Sweet song has betrayed many.
He should not complain of being cheated who buys the cloth by the sample.
Even the most beautiful flower withers in time.
A well educated man always has a kind word to say about the place where he spends the night.
There is no master who can fix the ravages of old age.
Dust does not burden him.
If you cannot serve, you cannot rule.
A fool may have no sense but he has legs.
When you are given, eat, when you are beaten, run away.
Everybody has a hump when he stoops.
Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.
He is a fool that forgets himself. (14th century)
Every person is a fool in some person's opinion.
Even if fed milk, a snake will still emit poison.
When the goat goes to church, he does not stop till he gets to the altar.
He that refuseth praise the first time does it because he would have it the second.
Nurse, you are mistress whilst the child sucks, and after that nothing.
After a battle everyone is a general.
The cats that drive away mice are as food as those that catch them.
Better one good thing that is, rather than two good things that were, or three good things that might never come to pass.
A crooked stick makes us know the carpenter.
Ashamed of what she sees in the daytime the sun sets with a blush.
Silence cannot be misquoted.
He puts his sickle into another man's harvest.
When your hand is in the dog's mouth, withdraw it gently.
Sauce for the goose, is sauce for the gander.
The king likes the treachery, but not the traitor.
Ye may not sit in Rome, and strive with the Pope.
Beetles that roll balls out of human faeces demand to be hidden away from the rich man, because there is nothing he wouldn't buy.
A new broom sweeps well the house.
Mustard after the meal.
He who starts singing too high will never finish the song.
Take a horse to the knacker, and throw in bridle and saddle.
What good is grass when the horse is already dead?
No one so sure but he may miss.
Fear has big eyes.
Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain.
Ye maun tak the will for the deed.
Give equal in reply, answer according to the call.
A severely under paid hungry teacher in a renovated, well-equipped classroom, can perform just as well as a bird without feathers can do in a hanging, decorated cage.
When the will is ready the feet are light.
Friends may meet, but mountains never greet.
The way of this world is to praise dead saints and persecute living ones.
Someone with an unrelenting heart is his own executioner.
Cheese and money should always sleep together one night.
Small pots also have ears.
Old people see best in the distance.
Everyone thinks his own burden is heavy.
Diligent work makes a skilful workman.
Had I known is a poor man.
‘twixt the word and the deed there's a long step.
Both cold and hunger make the mouth quiver.
If you yearry debil a come, clear de way.
One hand washes the other.
Wealth lost, something lost; honor lost, much lost; courage lost, all lost.
An inch of gold will not buy an inch of time.
Every fox looks after his own skin.
A still sow eats up all the draff.
A friend at hand is better than a relative at a distance.
The deceitful have no friends.
On a fishing lull, even a crayfish is fish [, at the lack of people even a lazybones is a man].
From all the fish in the pot you can only make one soup.
Life's a bitch and then you marry one.
Nobility of conduct is a greater recommendation than nobility of birth.
Black like the soul of the raven.
If you opress who is below you then you won't be safe from the punishment of who is above you.
Welcome evil if thou comest alone.
Whoever rides on the lion's back must surely end up in the lion's stomach.
Without jealousy, love would wither.
Charge nae mair shot than the piece ‘ll bear.
We go forward in order to go backwards.
As the wise man looks for a bridge the fool crosses the river.
Half a nose is quickly blown.
God sells knowledge for labour -- honour for risk.
All fear has much imagination and little talent.
If she can't dig or cook send her back to her father.
He who eats alone chokes alone.
Cowboys don't go around breaking hearts.
The nuts from a palm tree don't fall without dragging a few leaves with it.
In love and war don't seek counsel.
Rather go rob with good men than pray with bad.
The snake bites the tamer first.
Timely rain cheers my soul; water and sun during seeding, inspires hope; the rains of April and May are late at night; then the good mornings, will be the wealth of the houses.
Cooling the tongs is not end of forging.
The love of evil is the root of all money.
One mad man makes many madmen: many madmen make madness.
Burn not your house to fright the mouse away.
A man prolonging his age sees a camel giving birth.
Forge while the iron is hot.
To promise is easy, to keep is troublesome.
As the master is away the workers take rest.
The ass embraced the thistle, and they found themselves relations.
Not every ball hits.
The hen that cackles in the evening lays no eggs in the morning.
Olive flowers in june, olives in the hand.
When the old dog barks it is time to watch.
If everyone thought the same way, no goods would ever be sold.
Never do evil that good may come of it.
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
Even if christ's death could have been prevented, judas would still be a traitor.
He who only drinks water does not get drunk.
His opinions are like water in the bottom of a canoe, going from side to side.
An ant-hill that is destined to become a giant ant-hill will definitely become one, no matter how many times it is destroyed by elephants.
This nation doesn't believe in anything what Russia says. What a terrible danger it contains!
A good example is like a bell that calls many to church.
He who carries the word "no” with him will never be poor even when he is old.
A neighbour's eye is full of jealousy.
A cage made of gold does not feed the bird inside of it.
No flying without wings.
It is a man with a harp who should decide how he is going to sleep.
Depend on your walking stick, not on other people.
Set all at sixe and seven.
Our fates are as registered by heaven.
Last ship, best ship.
There is no worse thief than a bad book.
Work is twice done by the man in a hurry.
One who is not moved by words is not moved by the stick.
A wide garment does not tear, a proverb does not spoil.
There was already twenty in the family, so my grandmother had a baby.
Own kin are the worst friends, said the fox, when he saw the foxy dogs after him.
It's an ill cause that a lawyer thinks shame of.
He who is narrow of vision cannot be big of heart.
Pull gently at a weak rope.
Millers and bakers do not steal, people bring to them.
They are most cheated who cheat themselves.
Light your lamp first at home and afterwards at the mosque.
As a man lives, so shall he die.
In the desert of life the wise person travels with a group, while the fool prefers to travel alone.
A cat may look at a king.
If you dig a pit for me, you dig one for yourself.
The drums of war are the drums of hunger.
The fuel in the lamp consumes itself but lights others.
The magpie is competing with the nightingale!
Every flock has its black sheep.
Who got up, lost his place, who sat down, found it.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
To carry care to bed is to sleep with a pack on your back.
A ragged sack holds no grain, a poor man is not taken into counsel.
‘i see,' said the blind man when he was directed on his way.
He who has a good horse in his stable may go on foot.
He is my friend that grindeth at my mill.
Stretch your legs according to the length of your kilim.
If you don't light fires, smoke won't get in your eyes.
A boy living near a buddhist temple can learn an untaught sutra by heart.
Laws go the way kings direct.
An eloquent cock crows as soon as it comes out of the egg.
He who has not tasted bitter, knows not what sweet is.
Skill is not a heavy load to carry.
In a closed mouth the flies can't come in.
Any new saint-to-be has his miracles to make.
Even a poor man owns the sun and the stars.
Water afar off quenches not fire.
To the starving man the beauty of Fujiyama has no meaning.
There is no point of nurturing an anger inside us. Just let it go.
A man chases a woman until she catches him.
It will be all the same in a hundred years.
Your head is not only for putting a hat on.
He who judges others and never allows to be judged looses friends.
Every one hates the red ant on a kola nut because he cannot eat or sell it.
A clever hawk hides its talons.
Meaning: "Those who are late to act, arrive, or get up tend to miss opportunities already seized by those who came earlier."
For the fisherman, the fun is over when the fish are in the net.
After a rich man gets rich, his next ambition is to get richer.
Great deeds come from times of shortage.
One scabbed sheep will taint a whole flock.
You cannot separate water by beating it with a fork.
He who has shipped the devil, must carry him over the sound.
Who does not love to dance, does not love to sing.
What is soon ripe is soon rotten.
There is no medicine for a fool.
A good excuse is never bad.
If you can't be good, then be careful.
He who burns his mouth on the soup will blow on a cold fish dish.
Landing a single punch on your enemy's nose is more satisfying than hearing well-intentioned advice from your elders.
Take care how you beseech the Gods for a gift, for they will give it to you.
Walking slowly, even the donkey will reach Lhasa.
Hide their diminished heads.
YouTube Slovenian Anthem (with english lyrics)
Even the best tree sometimes has bad fruit.
Never tell your enemy that your foot aches.
Don't cry fried fish before they are caught.
A pear will fall to its root.
A penny saved is two-pence got.
In every woman there is a Queen. Speak to the Queen and the Queen will answer.
Looking for fish? Don't climb a tree.
If we are both masters, then who shall lead the mules?
Proverbs are the children of experience.
He can get money in desert.
Hens keep quiet when the rooster is around.
Stand up, farthing, let the florin sit down.
When it rains, collect the water.
The thief is no danger to the beggar.
A light supper is beneficial.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
When one sets a portion for oneself, usually it is not too small.
You cannot draw white cloth from a dying vat.
Beer makes beautiful bodies.
A goose, a woman, and a goat, are bad things lean.
When a fool becomes enlightened, the wise man is in trouble.
If you want to sell at a high price you'll earn little.
Better to sit next to someone taking a shit rather than someone carving stone.
A gold sword opens an iron door.
If you don't pay a servant his wages, then he will pay himself.
The more money, the happier; the more wit, the happier.
The tiger crouches before he leaps upon his prey.
Do not leave undone what is in your power to do.
When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice.
Dig the well before you are thirsty.
The more noble the more humble.
One bird in the hand is better than two flying.
If you want visitors then you leave your front door open.
The worst blind is that who doesn't want to see.
He that desires but little has no need of much.
Buy low, sell high.
Great cry and little wool, as the man said who shaved the sow.
There is no better friend than a burden.
If you wish to be good, first believe that you are bad.
Beating the dead is a sin.
He who adorns himself knows to what sort of dance he is going.
Of small account is a fly till it gets into the eye.
What one does not bake, another brews.
Be friendly with everyone and counsel with few.
Don't care lost his corn patch.
A monkey left behind laughs at the others tail.
The stars are the eyes of heaven.
Hunger has no friend.
A thousand years hence the river will run as it did.
Promises fill no sack.
When the king reigns it is thanks to the people; when a river sings it's thanks to the stones.
Any man can steer in a calm.
The shortest distance between two points is a straight line.
The wind does not break a tree that bends.
Don't bring all your eggs to one market.
A fool went to fish, but lost his fishing-basket.
There is no beast that does not roar in its den.
The white man has no kin. His kin is his money.
A habit is first a wanderer, then a guest, and finally the boss.
While you still have bread, troubles are not troubles, true troubles are without bread.
Rent and taxes never sleep.
Pride goes before a fall.
Excuses are like as*holes, everyone has one, and they all stink.
The higher the rise the greater the fall.
Scald not your lips in another man's pottage.
He had need rise betimes who would please everybody.
A peck of March dust is worth a king's ransom.
A sin that is hidden is half forgiven.
There's one born every minute.
Ye have ta'en the measure of his feet.
If the mother had never been in the oven.
Ticks, bedbugs and a crying child are unendurable.
He who would buy sausage of a dog must give him bacon in exchange.
Right or wrong, our house up to the roof.
Chickens can't speak well of their own soup.
What's such child who doesn't do damage worth five marks a day - a boy may do worth one hundred.
When others have received, you may still receive, because God is always present.
He who takes the wrong road must make his journey twice over.
If things are not as you wish, wish them as they are.
Tongue breaks bone and herself has none.
Smooth words make smooth ways.
He who digs a pit for another falls into it himself.
If you are too sparing with the cat's food, the rats will eat your ears.
He who does not have common sense at age thirty will never have it.
The insolence of shortness is to stretch itself big.
It's just a question of putting two and two together.
A lie has many variations, the truth none.
If your heart is bitter, sugar in the mouth won't help.
Ingratitude is the daughter of pride.
Empty bag cyaa stan' up.
Where there is least heart there is most tongue.
There will come a time when the seed will sprout.
The madman, who throws a stone into a crowded market, forgets that his own mother could be hit by his madness.
There is no blindness but the blindness of the heart.
Listen with your ears, look with your eyes, but keep silent with your mouth.
He that promises most will perform least.
For every ailing foot, there is a slipper.
The cow may dee ere the grass grow.
Nobody wages war with ghosts.
Deceit sleeps with greed.
Do not put the cart before the horse.
Stupidity closes the doors of kindness.
One wolf does not bite another.
One rotten apple spoils the other.
It fares ill with the house when the distaff commands the sword.
It is the nature of the greyhound to carry a long tail.
The stone that everybody spits upon will be wet at the last.
Straying shepherd, straying sheep.
"bad company,” said the thief, as he went to the gallows between the hangman and a monk.
He would not give the devil a knife to cut his throat.
A whale's tooth in a whale's jaw.
Short hose must have long points.
We knock in jest, and it is opened in earnest.
Wherever a man dwells, he shall be sure to have a thorn-bush near his door.
However long the night, the dawn will always break.
The young magpie that pulls feathers out of his mother thinks that he is showing gratitude in that way.
Good blood never lies.
Send, and fetch.
A person who misses a chance and the monkey who misses its branch -- both cannot be saved.
Even when months and days are long, life is short.
Better on the heath with an old cart that at sea in a new ship.
Who has burnt himself with soup will blow on water as well.
Nobles and dogs leave the door open.
If you lose your self-respect, you also lose the respect of others.
Rear dogs and wolves' cubs to rend you.
Whatever man had done, man may do.
If you live by the river you can hear the crab cough.
It is easy to drive with your own whip and another's horse.
Fear doesn't travel by donkey.
To suffer doesn't mean to die.
There is always room at the top.
Travellers lie by authority.
Look at a leopard through a pipe.
Help you to salt. help you to sorrow.
May the Great Spirit walk with you.
Dress up once a year, and dress up in cloth.
The fault is as great as he that commits it.
Merit is often an obstacle to fortune; the reason is it produces two bad effects, envy and fear.
He is a fool who praises the fruit of a tree and forgets its roots.
A fair daughter's father has no ears.
Don't speak my mouth, I shall have no headache.
Councils of war never fight.
If you leave the safe open even a saint will sin.
Between brothers, whether the trial is won or lost, makes no difference.
Poverty is no shame.
The heir's tears are but a mask to disguise his joy.
Pleasures steal away the mind.
If you make yourself a doormat, you will be stepped on.
A man has a choice to begin love, but not to end it.
"yes” and "no” govern the world.
No matter how sharp your teeth are, you can't bite water.
A kitchen knife cannot carve its own handle.
Laws, like the spider's web, catch the fly and let the hawk go free.
A picture is worth a thousand words, and yet picture books are for infants.
Rather a slip of the foot than a slip of the pen.
Kindnesse cannot be bought for geir.
Shoot the bear before you skin it.
"Land der Berge, Land am Strome” (Land of mountains, land by the river) is the title of the national anthem of Austria.
Hell is full of the ungrateful.
It is a bad hen that lays in neighbour's houses.
Joy and sorrow sleep in the same bed.
When cockroach get in a trouble, him well glad fe fun go hide a fowl-house.
God promises a safe landing but not a calm passage.
Do not scare the birds you are going to shoot.
Some are born to honor, and some have honor thrust upon them.
God save you from a bad neighbour, and from a beginner on the fiddle.
A scalded cat dreads cold water.
Riches are often abused, but never refused.
Let someone else sing your praise.
What has the rooster of Sciacca been reduced to, to be pecked by the hen.
More precious than our children are the children of our children.
One has to tighten the belt.
There must be order.
Suffering and patience, obedience and application, help the lowly born to honour.
A guest should not remain for ever a guest.
Weigh justly and sell dearly.
One falsehood leads to another.
There's no use in closing the barn door after the horse is stolen.
More hideous than a monkey.
A cough will stick longer by a horse than a peck of oats.
In the lack of ropes those are kept loose, said the wife of Mäkeläinen about her children.
Why save when your son is a good son? why save when your son is a bad son?
In a fight with a fool it's a wise man who quits.
Talk doesn't plow the field.
Thinking evil is much the same as doing it.
By firelight, an old rag looks like sturdy hemp fabric.
Truth has but one color, a lie has many.
The man who minds his own business well has always enough to do.
The careful foot can walk anywhere.
The mountain is a good mustard.
Some people clean a tap an' dutty underneath.
Let not your right hand know what your left hand doeth.
Carrying saut to dysart and puddings to tranent.
Don't mention him and a decent man in the one day.
If you have much, give of your wealth; if you have little, give of your heart.
Thinking of where you are going, you forget from whence you came.
Touch a gaw'd horse on the back and he'll fling.
The bigger a man's head, the worse his headache.
Only when you have crossed the river, can you say the crocodile has a lump on his snout.
Kings are out of play.
When Anger and Revenge get married, their daughter is called Cruelty.
A man who seeks a perfect friend, will remain friendless.
The boss is always right.
If you know his father and grandfather you may trust his son.
When christ disappears, light goes out.
1 day 1 yard. Bagan won't move.
Do not roast baobab kernels and leave those who have teeth chewing.
The devil always tends to his own business.
The king's ambassador is without sin.
He gains a great deal who loses a vain hope.
Bare is the back of a brother less man.
He writes with an iron pen.
Nothing enters a close Hand.
Never choose your women or linen by candlelight.
curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
Weeping will follow a long delight, fart from laughing long.
Don't upset the apple cart.
The witness of a rat is another rat.
Best to be on the safe side.
Become famous, then go to sleep.
The light is painful to sore eyes.
Abuses are the result of seeing one another too often.
A kick from a mare never hurt a horse.
One who hides private parts wont get a child.
If I had a dog as daft, I would shoot him.
For the blind sellers there are blind buyers.
The ignorant is his own enemy.
Where you are not -- there is happiness.
The greatest crime in a desert is to find water and keep silent about it.
It's not healthy to swallow books without chewing.
The king's errand may come in the cadger's gate.
Trust in God, but mind your own business.
We can only speak the truth when we turn off the light.
One devil drives out another.
When wise men play mad pranks they do it with a vengeance.
Time and thinking tame the strongest grief.
Who makes the wolf his companion should carry a dog under his cloak.
As you slide down the banister of life, may the splinters never point the wrong way.
Love is a crocodile in the river of desire.
He is most likely to spill who holds the vessel in his hand.
Eagles don't catch flies.
A dog bitten by a snake is afraid of sausages.
We hate delays by others, but sometimes it makes us wise.
Life is a dung pie from which you take a bite every day.
Hey sloth, don't go into the shade, the shade would eventually come to you.
If you go only once round the room, you are wiser than he who sits still.
A dog bites the stone, not him who throws it.
Go softly and look afar.
He who dips his finger into honey does not dip it once.
No matter how huge a hook may be it cannot catch fish in a river.
The key at the girdle keeps me good and my neighbour too.
Tell me with whom thou goest, and I'll tell thee what thou doest.
To burn the candle at both ends. (1678)
When money is talking, the rest of the world shuts up.
Duty before devotion.
If you can't dance well, you'd better not get up.
Sit a beggar at your table and he will soon put his feet on it.
Don't ask in this life for the three most difficult things: good sons, long life and a long beard.
He who selects coconut with great care ends up getting a bad coconut.
A rope breaks at a worn place.
Hunger sharpens anger.
Keep no more cats that will catch mice.
The bad barber leaves neither hair nor skin.
Roaring lions kill no prey.
One pair of ears would exhaust a hundred tongues.
Me too, said the little bull.
Once a man has been bitten by a lion, he buys a dog.
Know all and you will pardon all.
Honey is sweet, but the bees sting.
Wisdom does not come overnight.
Far from the eyes, far from the heart.
A strong person doesn't rush to wake up early morning.
What everybody says must be true.
We let him in; but then he brought his donkey along, too.
Spending your money with many a guest, empties the kitchen, the cellar and chest.
When an wise man dies, the heavens lament.
Use it up, make do, or do without.
A stolen object brings no joy to one's heart.
The whip hits at the legs, not the guilt.
Sell what you have bought while the dust is still on your shoes.
Love makes the world go round.
If an ox doesn't know the size of his arse he won't eat an apricot stone.
Courage wins over sickness.
He who eats when he is full digs his grave with his teeth.
When the old dog barks, he gives counsel.
Even when you dig a soft place, you still leave the garden.
If you sell a drum in your own village, you get the money and keep the sound.
The anvil fears no blow.
Even a mangy camel will carry more that a herd of asses.
Nothing is more contagious than a bad example.
Do not do all you can, do not spend all that you have, do not believe all that you hear, and do not tell all that you know.
None so deaf as those who will not hear.
Monreale, a city without comfort, either it rains, or the wind blows, or bells ring for the dead.
He who meddles in others people's affairs will be left with two of three parts.
Better be dead as out of the fashion.
Ca' me, ca' thee.
Put a coward to his metal an' he'll fight the de'il.
You don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Who more busy than they who have least to do?
You may force a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink.
Strive for the summit.
A ripple of laughter is worth a flood of tears.
No where's near land.
My job is to scream, 'cock-a-doodle-doo'; from then on, it may not dawn.
A mistake proves that at least someone stopped talking long enough to do something.
Every rose has its thorn.
Time lost is lost forever.
Rather than tell a lie to help a friend, it is better to assist him in paying the fine for his offense.
Fire drives the wasp out of its nest.
It is hard to swim against the stream.
No apple tree is immune from worms.
What one learns in childhood he carries into adulthood.
If you eat a live toad first thing in the morning, nothing worse will happen all day long.
At the end of the game you'll see who's the winner.
Who is not ashamed of his sins, sins double.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
Who goes to Rome a beast returns a beast.
Mango among fruits, pork among meats, tea among leaves.
A flag follows the direction of the wind.
May you be as big as the white mountain.
When yuh leave home pon a morning, yuh don't know who gine feed yuh.
Peace with a cudgel in hand is war.
Better ride a good horse for a year, than an ass all your life.
Words are but wind, but blows unkind.
Early to rise and late to bed, lifts again the debtor's head.
Hope for miracles, but don't rely on one happening.
If you heat an empty pot it bursts.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Even over cold pudding, the coward says: "it will burn my mouth.”.
You get to really know your friend when trouble comes.
You are learning all your life and you die stupid.
Wolves do not eat each other.
When two agree in their desire, One sparke will set them both on fire.
The apple never falls far form the tree.
Even a child may beat a man that's bound.
The mouth which ate pepper is the one which pepper affected.
Drink is the curse of the land. It makes you fight with your neighbour. It makes you shoot at your landlord – and it makes you miss him.
You must keep quiet or say only things that improve silence.
Unite to move forward.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll always find a use for it.
Honesty lasts the longest.
Relations last longer when the family is in distress.
If a dog offers to help you across the river, don't ask if he is suffering from the mange.
The one who used to jump across the stream may find herself wading through..
When the sun shines and it rains the devil is whipping his wife.
Life is like honey and the bride like a mirror.
A man is happy when he has books, but happier still when he does not need them.
Sweet and sour walk hand in hand.
If you don't want to be hung yourself, blame the dog for stealing the sausage.
Never drop the friends you made on the way up.
If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow.
Where the stream is shallowest, greatest is its noise.
Many hands make a workload lighter.
The mob has many heads, but no brains. (1732)
An empty barrel makes a lot of noise.
Character is habit long continued.
Married couples tell each other a thousand things without speech.
Cavaliers, priests, and dangerous places, speak nicely about them but keep your distance.
When a twig grows hard it is difficult to twist it. Every beginning is weak.
Few laws, good nations.
Nothing is as new as something which as been long forgotten.
They who drink the water from the Manangareza river always come back to Madagascar.
It is better to wear out one's shoes than one's sheets.
Lip-honour costs little, yet may bring in much.
If God wants people to suffer, he sends them too much understanding.
The eyes can do a thousand things that the fingers can't.
When the tree is fallen every one runs to it with his axe.
safer than the pigeon of Mekkah.
When you speak, know that which can be brought against you.
All roads do not lead to rome.
There are three who have to give an accounting to God; the judges, the priests, and the godparents.
When a man's mode of life is contemptible, it follows that his preaching is treated with contempt.
No choice is ever wholly unregretted, each brings more joy.
Too much politeness is impertinent.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
A house full of daughters is a cellar full of sour beer.
Always leave a little room for a mistake.
Married people and mules, leave them alone.
It is not the bullet that kills you, it is fate.
God sends men cold, as they have clothes to.
If you don't have a brain, join the army; if you don't have rice, use beans instead.
God save me from those I trust in.
The mouth of a woman takes no holiday.
Not every thunderclap is followed by lightning.
If the stone is not milky, its owner will generally not obtain the best price from it.
It is better to be the cub of a live jackal than of a dead lion.
To every fool his cap.
The dead man doesn't know the value of his coffin.
He who suspects is seldom at fault.
How can swallows and sparrows know the thoughts of a great swan?
The aged in council, the young in action.
Wine upon beer is very good cheer; beer upon wine consider with fear.
Where McGregor sits, there is the head of the table.
Charity supports both the giver and receiver.
Alms do not empty the purse, and a mass does not exhaust the day's duty.
A coral reef hardens into land.
Who lives by hope will die by hunger.
Lovers think others are blind.
The washer conceals the corpse.
Keep not two tongues in one mouth.
Continue for a thousand, eight thousand generations,
I have two masters -- God and the devil; I work for the devil until lunch then I follow the Lord.
Exaggeration is to paint a snake and add legs.
He that canna make sport shou'd mar nane.
It is vain to fish if the hook is not baited.
If you let the weeds grow for a year you will need seven to clear them.
Gossip about a person and his shadow will appear.
Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
Spare at the spigot, and let it out at the bung-hole.
A poor man with intelligence is wealthy.
As a snipe and a clam are entangled in a fight, a fisherman catch them both.
No one is so tall that he never needs to stretch, and no one is so short that he never needs to stoop.
If you go to war pray once if you go on a sea journey pray twice but pray three times if you are going to be married.
Smoke does not affect honeybees alone; honey-gatherers are also affected.
The mother's breast cannot get leprosy.
Poverty with security is better than plenty in the midst of fear and uncertainty.
The left hand washes the right and the right washes the left.
It is better to ride a donkey that carries you than a horse that throws you.
Good goods, cheap goods.
Shrouds have no pocket.
A man says his word to the face.
No matter how tight a monkey's trousers are, there is always space for his tail.
Shoemaker, stick to your trade.
It's not what you call me, but what I answer to.
One who can do you a deal of good or a deal of harm.
When an elephant becomes as small as a monkey, it ceases to be an elephant.
Old men's children are rarely of good constitution.
If a forest catches fire, both the dry and the wet will burn up.
You are not being honest if you burn your tongue and don't tell everyone else that the soup is hot.
The weak warrior wearing sandals overcomes the brave with a thorn in his foot.
A full bottle makes no sound; a half-bottle sloshes around.
One can't spoil porridge with butter.
Follow the customs, or fly the country.
A goose drinks as much as a gander.
Don't learn too much, Jack, else you must do a great deal.
With art and knavery we live through half the year; with knavery and art we live through the other.
Even a fly has its spleen.
Better lady in a cottage than serving-woman in a castle.
Stairs are climbed step by step.
Abuse of hospitality breaks the bridge.
No one will notice in the dark.
The wolf and the shaman are of one nest.
Everything would be well were there not a "but.”.
A trusted friend is a priceless treasure.
If our feet leave the earth we no longer live in peace.
Better to lose a minute in your life than your life in a minute.
Preparing for the holiday is neither enlightening nor lasting.
Sell publicly and buy privately.
Gold glitters even in the mud.
A little help is worth a lot of pity.
A lean agreement is better than a fat judgement.
The cattle is as good as the pasture in which it grazes.
Charm is stronger than beauty.
A donkey that carries me is worth more than a horse that kicks me.
It will snap where it's the thinnest.
Colleges hate geniuses, just as convents hate saints.
For his pleasure he got married. On his thinking it over he got divorced.
The devil is civil when he is flattered.
It is na mair pitty to see a Woman greit, nor to see a Goose go barefoot.
A pig bought on credit grunts all the year.
In times of famine no bread is stale.
A captive they insult with impunity.
Pot calling the kettle black.
A rumor goes in one ear and out many mouths.
The best fish swim near the bottom.
The scraping hen will get something; the crouching hen nothing.
The opportunity that God sends does not wake up those that are asleep.
Ask which was born first, the hen or the egg.
I bought the nettle, sowed the nettle, and then the nettle stung me.
I sing the song of the person whose bread I eat.
Those who seek revenge must remember to dig two graves.
The dog has returned to his vomit again, and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.
The little devils are the worst in hell, too.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow.
A fool may throw a stone into a well which a hundred wise cannot take out.
A hard bit does not make the better horse.
An old man is there to talk.
A person can understand things deeply through proverbs.
Look for the hog at the oak.
You can't get rid of Pori without fighting and of Tampere without a woman.
If he should ask for wine, box his ears.
Woe to him who fails in his obligations. • He is a sorry wretch who fails to keep his bonds.
It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand.
God is the comfort of the poor.
Midday sun is the remedy for a cold.
He that seeks trouble never misses.
Tomorrow's battle is won during today's practice.
You give hay to the dog and bones to the ass.
The future belongs to those who prepare for it.
Better to die than to live in shame.
You must tolerate that which you cannot change.
Love knows not labour.
There is no greater fraud than a promise not kept.
Don't expect to be long in this world, but try to be good while you are in it, for death is certain.
It's no secret that's know to three.
Perfect love sometimes does not come until the first grandchild.
Water washes everything.
They who have much business must have much pardon.
Nothing is done while something remains undone.
To make your neighbor jealous, go to bed early and get up early.
The best art conceals art.
They can because they seem to be able to. [Possunt quia posse videntur.].
Many return from the war who cannot give an account of the battle.
A bachelor and a dog can do anything.
Let water run that you do not intend to drink.
It's not the sin that maddens a person but the desire to do it.
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
Our shadow will follow us.
If the camel once get his nose in the tent, his body will follow.
Every joy will follow in grief's footsteps.
It's better to be sorry and stay, than to be sorry and go away.
Bigger they are, the harder they fall.
Oil and truth will get uppermost at last.
Good luck, with good looking after!
Teaching a monkey to eat with a fork and knife will never make it a man.
Three daughters and a mother are four devils for a father.
Coffee is our bread.
The gypsy church was made of pork and the dogs ate it.
It is only one bad palm tree that spoils the whole lot of palm wine.
Poverty and love are difficult to hide.
Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face.
One shouldn't make a bull out of a fly.
The sleeping dog is turned by a stick.
When the wind serves, all aid.
A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat.
Never think of the future; it comes soon enough.
Good deeds remain, all things else perish.
Let every sheep hang by it own foot.
The world has not made a promise to anybody.
Whatever kind of word thou speakest, the like shalt thou bear.
Plan your life at New Year's eve, your day at dawn.
The buffalo's shit is dry on top when inside its wet.
Though a lie be swift, truth overtakes it.
In life we are encompassed by regulations, in death by the mould of the grave.
The tree that is not taller than you cannot shade you.
Much laugher, short wisdom.
Friendship is love with intelligence.
Bury the hatchet...Elássa a csatabárdot.
Your elbow is near but you can't bite it.
Where there is love, there is happiness.
One minute of patience can mean ten years of peace.
A dimple in the chin, your living comes in; a dimple in the cheek, your living to seek.
Have two strings to your bow.
The lucky pennyworth sells soonest.
When Adam delved, and Eve span, where was then the gentleman?
Without danger we cannot get beyond danger.
A hard-working man is worth more than a crowd of loafers.
You cannot make a hawk of a buzzard.
He who would hang himself is sure to find a rope.
Tell no one what you would have known only to yourself.
The same destiny awaits both the wise man and the fool.
Take the custom where you go (literally, "come").
A stumble is not a fall.
The hen that stays at home picks up the crumbs.
Communism is a cow of many; well milked and badly fed.
A person who will not take advice gets knowledge when trouble overtakes him.
When the old hag is in danger she must run.
An egg thief becomes a camel thief.
The crow hold the chilli in the mouth.
No one is a prophet in one's own homeland/home city.
Seek not to be consoled but to console.
When the itch is inside the boot, scratching outside provides little consolation.
If the fight is tomorrow, why then clench your fist today?
Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart.
A bad knife cuts one's finger instead of the stick.
In the presence of an expert a lie is not uttered.
Chickens are counted in autumn.
When the ox falls, there are many that will help to kill him.
Short cuts are long ways round.
March'll search ye, April try ye May'll tell, whether live or die ye.
A husband has two days of joy: bringing his bride to home and bringing her to grave.
The good captain shows himself in a storm.
Windmills are not driven by bellows.
God gives nothing to those who keep their arms crossed.
Prosperity makes friends, and adversity tries them. Успех находит друзей, а горе испытывает их.
The grace of God is geir enough.
Never marry a widow unless her first husband was hanged.
Reason is the wise man's guide, example the fool's.
There goes more to marriage than four bare legs in a bed.
Faster than lightning.
It is better to blow than burn your mouth.
Advantage is a better soldier than rashness.
An Horse may snapper on four feet.
No man is a hero to his valet.
The blacksmith's horse and the cobbler's wife are always the last to have shoes.
When fools go to market, pedlars make money.
A girl without a needle is like a cat without a claw.
Hot needle burn thread.
He that will not be saved needs no preacher.
The unfortunate know who are their real friends.
A word and a blow.
Follow not truth too near the heels lest it dash out your teeth.
He couldn't drag a herring off the coals.
One who believes everything he's told is as naive as one who fetches water with a sieve.
A hungry dog will eat his own excrement.
He who sees heaven in the water sees the fishes in the trees.
An idle man is the devil's bolster.
Day doesn't come without night following.
The cock is bold on his own dunghill.
A timid man has little chance.
You set the trap when the rat has gone.
If God bids thee draw, he will find thee a rope; if he bids thee ride, he will find thee a horse.
An ass's trot does not last long.
A spoken word is like a sparrow that once has flown away, cannot be caught again.
Govern your passions, or they will govern you.
The belly is like a judge that is silent yet still asks questions.
A person slow to anger has great understanding; one with a quick temper exalts foolishness.
Plenty know good ale, but don't know much after that.
It is never too late to give to those who do not have.
Women and fools never forgive.
There is no honor in attacking the weak.
All the cones drop on poor makar.
May as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
Don't outstay your welcome like a neighbor's goat.
Common saw sindle lies.
Harp not on that string.
Thou art a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
He's free o' fruit that wants an orchard.
Crooked wood burns quite as well as straight.
Who has a head won't want for a hat.
A good thing lost is a good thing valued.
He is a bad smith who cannot bear smoke.
Being able to feel it on wooden shoes.
Why jump in the water before the ship turns over.
Every fault that a Sultan pleases can be a quality.
To get the warmth of fire one must stir the embers.
All are architects of fate working in these walls of time.
Laziness likes to justify itself for not doing anything because it cannot do everything.
All be the same in a hundred years.
The bride's getting ready but the groom has no idea.
Fixing the known is better than waiting for the unknown.
The only real true supporter the politician sees in the mirror.
One blind man leads another into the ditch.
No one is perfect.
Two sparrows on one ear of corn never agree.
Do not measure another man's coat on your body.
All the world will beat the man whom fortune buffets.
He who would close another man's mouth, should first tie up his own.
Where need is great, help is nearby.
Different pursuits suit different ages.
The envious person is a sad person.
Teach your grandame to suck eggs.
Good leading makes good following.
A good name is better than a precious stone.
The camel asking for horns lost also his ears.
Although the monkey might dress in silk, monkey it still is.
He who steals in order to give to God can only get advice from the devil.
To a starving man bread is sweeter than honey.
Nine other flavors and the taste of shit the tenth.
Young folk may dee, auld folk maun dee.
In war, there is nothing more honorable than victory.
Grief for a dead wife lasts to the door.
Don't reply one wrong with another.
You never miss the water till the well has run dry.
If a man is right, he cannot be too radical; if wrong, he cannot be too conservative.
You cannot get oil out of a wall.
Eat little and you'll live, speak little and you'll get it right, spend little and you'll become rich.
The evil spirit of a man is a man.
Only fools seek credit from the achievements of their ancestors.
There may be snow on the roof, but there's fire in the belly.
In the desert of life the wise travel by caravan, while the fool.
It is a foul bird that fills his own nest.
Death is never at a loss for occasions.
In the eyes of its mother every turkey is a swan.
Big bellies were never generous.
A decision made at night may be changed in the morning.
The dying cannot leave their wisdom or experience to their heirs.
Spring is in the air. The sap rises in the spring.
Where luck is wanting, diligence is useless.
An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom.
Stretch yourself according to your cover-lid.
No sooner is the law made than its evasion is discovered.
There are more ways of killing a dog than choking it with butter.
Much pleasure and little grief is every man's desire.
Some families are like potatoes - all that's good of them is underground.
Only a mother can understand the suffering of a son.
The horse that you love draws more than four oxen.
A stranger is like a white fowl.
Shoot a daw and a crow, and soon you'll hit a falcon.
If a poor man finds a penny, it is probably a false one.
Whoever eats a pancake never counts the holes in it.
A leap year is never a good sheep year.
Needs just bread and warmth.
Wealth, if you use it, comes to an end; learning, if you use it, increases.
Youth is a crown of roses, old age a crown of willows.
No stake ever grew old with the bark on.
Do not drink from a well and throw a stone into it.
The sweetness of a kola nut doesn't lie in its sugar content.
Priest on the outside, Satan on the inside.
The village which is not discussed is not built.
Do not walk into a snake pit with your eyes open.
What's everybody's business is nobody's business.
A finn doesn't believe before he has seen.
Big fish eat little fish.
You cannot climb a bid of success with your hands tied up.
An endless war shames even a hero.
No better masters than poverty and want.
Do not buy with your ears, but with your eyes.
The eye watches always ahead, but the poor nose is in danger.
The end justifies the means.
When one is really thirsty, one thousand pearls are not what is craved for at all.
When one tries to shake a big tree, he ends up shaking himself.
Kif is like fire; a little warms, a great deal burns.
It doesn't matter how slowly you walk, just as long as you don't stop.
If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars?
The Pilgrim Fathers landed on the shores of America and fell on their knees; then they fell upon the aborigines.
Help thyself and heaven will help thee.
Luck that lasts is always suspected.
One who explains things to an intelligent person need not tire herself out talking.
A clean hand wants no washing.
The son of the swan is a good swimmer.
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Proverbs are like butterflies; some are caught and some fly away.
Flies never infest an egg without cracks.
Two in harmony are in god's company.
A few things gained by fraud destroy a fortune otherwise honestly won.
You can't push on a rope.
He that is won with a nut, may be lost with an apple.
That which is a sin in others is a virtue in ourselves.
He who gets the grace of the women is neither hungry nor thirsty.
Sit and wait for the good chestnuts.
Who cheats is a dog, who lets himself be cheated is an ass.
A little nod is enough for the wise man; an ass needs a fist.
That is the lion's tail, do not play with it.
Every failure teaches a man something, if he will learn.
Death is nature's way of telling you to slow down.
To tell the truth is dangerous; to listen to it is boring.
Bread and wine start a banquet.
When a son attends to his father, it is a twofold joy for both; when wise things are prescribed to him, the son is.
From the king to the beggar, they all depend on the farm.
It is folly to drown on dry land.
When bad luck chooses you as a companion, even a ripe banana can remove your teeth.
They who come from afar have leave to lie.
Good faith stole the cow.
Practice what you preach.
He is easy to lure, who is ready to follow.
The eye is not harmed by sleep.
It's not the able that give, but the desirous.
Some hope for rain even though they have not prepared their fields.
Don't go putting wool on a sheep's back.
A person will change his mind on something if left to sleep over it.
Let him who is without sin cast the first stone.
The liar will travel the world over, but chooses not to go back home.
Clean as God's fingertips.
Teeth placed before the tongue give good advice.
A mean pot plaid never even.
A man and a goat can be friends but it would be foolishness for the goat to pay the first visit.
The stake of the play is not beans.
A man one year elder to you is one cunning year elder to you.
April rains for men; May, for beasts.
Clemency is the support of justice.
Even in the monastery there is occasion for song and merriment.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
The lazy work twice as much.
Mends is worth misdeeds.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day.
A dog with a docked tail is not afraid that its backside can be seen.
When a fool is told a proverb, it has to be explained to him.
Nobody is to blame for all.
Put it on your shoulder and say it is not a burden.
The hand works, the mouth (is allowed to) chew.
The cow drinks water and it turns to milk; the snake drinks water and it turns to poison.
Tell everybody your business and the devil will do it for you.
After the head is off, one does not cry over the hair.
Dead men tell no tale.
After darkness comes light.
Give me, my Lord, but do it immediately.
A naked man will often laugh at someone with torn clothes.
The dog says: "master, my life is far too good, hurt me in the tail.”.
When cicadas sing, the swineherd weeps and works.
He that conceals his grief finds no remedy for it.
Between two stools one falls to the ground.
To understand life, endure pain.
Away from the battle all are soldiers.
Do no business with a kinsman.
Sleep is the best cure for waking troubles.
The lion's share.
In the land of the blind, one-eye is king.
He can see a louse as far away as china but is not aware of an elephant on his nose.
You cannot catch old birds with chaff.
As you would have a daughter so choose a wife.
Had the monkey seen its ass, it wouldn't have danced.
Those who die through ignorance are many; those who die because they are intelligent are few.
Marry you son when you will, and your daughter when you can.
You must lose a fly, to catch a trout.
As day break, the glowworms say "We've lit up the world!”.
A ferengi without profit is no ferengi at all.
Perhaps they are not stars, but rather openings in heaven where the love of our lost ones pours through and shines down upon us to let us know they are happy.
Condition makes, and condition breakes.
Much talking, much erring.
To win a dispute is to gain a chicken and lose a cow.
One who walks along a river frequently cannot avoid getting his shoes wet.
A nobody to-day, a prince to-morrow.
Old age is sickness of itself.
One washes the body in vain if one does not wash the soul.
More people are threatened than are beaten up.
Take care of the manger and water the animals at the drinking trough.
An empty pot makes the loudest noise.
There's no fun in physics, but a good deal of physics in fun.
There is delight in danger and danger in delight.
The archer that shoots badly has a lie ready.
What you deserve you don't have to ask for.
Goodness speaks in a whisper, evil shouts.
Young dogs have sharp teeth.
Eat, drink, be merry, for tomorrow we die.
When a man's coat is threadbare it is easy to pick a hole in it.
When you see a palm tree, the palm tree has seen you.
The world is a rose: smell it and pass it on to your friends.
Friendship canna stand aye on ae side.
A river doesn't flow through the forest without felling the trees.
You surround your vineyard with thorns - place doors and locks on your mouth.
Every man should practise only his trade.
Patience is the mother of knowledge.
Let none put faith in the first sown fruit.
Low is the mountain, high the expectations.
Change yourself and fortune will change.
Look at the mother before marrying the daughter.
Grey hairs are death's blossoms.
Every dog got dem diay, every puss dem 4 o' clock.
If summer had a mother, she would weep at summer's passing.
The debts go to the next heir.
A pile of ice behind him.
The poor has no riches to give to his child but a beautiful name.
The praise of fools is censure in disguise.
Young angel, old devil.
Not every one may pluck roses.
Lending is the firstborn of poverty.
Grace could be natural.
They know not their own defects who search for the defects of others.
Let my lamp at midnight hour be seen in some high lonely tower.
If The Priest is used to get drunk, the people do not sober at all.
A good hope is better than a bad possession.
The buying of a wife begins from a little thing.
The reception has more value than the invitation.
A true friend does sometime venture to be offensive.
Put the cart before the horse.
The greatest oaks have been little acorns.
The wine has been poured and must be drunk.
A bird may be known by its flight.
I will do what I can, and a little less, to be able to continue at it.
Each rat with its own whisker.
A dog doesn't like bananas, but he can't bear to think that chickens eat them.
All bite the bitten dog.
It is not good to be alone, even in Paradise.
A good name is sooner tint that won.
He who eats until he is ill must fast until he is well.
All roads lead to Moscow.
He that has no silver in his purse, should have silver on his tongue.
Death is God's broom.
No man is an island.
Every old man was once a young man but not every young man will become an old man.
With a good friend the hours are short.
Three may keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
To condemn by a cutting laugh comes easily to all.
Don't show your teeth if you can't bite.
Where is by now the snow of last year.
After three days the place of the guest is behind the door outside.
The heart at rest sees a feast in everything.
A pearl is worthless as long as it is in its shell.
Boldly ventured is half won.
Mountains are used to snow.
It's difficult to press oil out of a rock.
If you buy things you don't need, you will soon be selling things you do need.
A wise man sees only water in the tears of a woman.
A friend in need, is a friend indeed.
I would rather be deceived by an intelligent person than by a jackass.
Hasty questions require slow answers.
Never listen to these three advisers: wine, the night, and love.
Glory is fitting to God alone.
First learn, and then form opinions.
If fools went not to market bad wares would not be sold.
The son of a klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade.
He that lives on hope has a slender diet.
Sin means nothing but the consequences.
Success is a journey not a destination.
Don't notice the tiny flea in the other person's hair.
Laws catch flies but lets hornets go free.
A minimal error at the start leads to a wide divergence in the distance.
A child, who loves culture and breeding, is a perfect child.
It is a bold mouse that nestles in the cat's ear.
If you want to give God a good laugh, tell him of your future plans.
A hard beginning maketh a good ending.
Radish is poison in the morning, food at noon and medicine in the evening.
First endure, then pity, then embrace.
Criminals are punished, that others may be amended.
He who asks for salt does so for his own cooking pot.
Everything has a wherefore.
For whom sword and courage are not enough, corslet and lance will not be enough.
Silence makes irritation grow.
Meaning: Work hard and you shall gain success.
A tender bamboo cannot be eagerly desired for building.
He who wants a mule without fault must walk on foot.
Revenge in cold blood is the devil's own act and deed.
All is fair in love and war. (17th century)
Better an unjust peace than a just war.
Poverty has no kin.
All riches are multiplied by the simple process of sharing them where they may serve others.
Too much luck is bad luck.
So it goes in the world: one has the purse, the other has the gold.
A low fog leaves good weather.
The forest of an unpleasant person is the one that has trees.
An old man in the house is a burden, but an old woman is a treasure.
Man is learning all his life and yet he dies in ignorance.
Display one's proficiency of axe in front of the master carpenter.
Hell and Chancery are always open.
Keep your foot on the mark.
Who does not want to work in the heat, will have to starve in the cold.
Not only of bread will the man live.
The best of all worlds: A sunny Christmas and a log fire on Easter.
The hen's eyes turn to where she has her eggs.
Good company on a journey is worth a coach.
He who seeks revenge should remember to dig two graves.
The flowers in your garden don't smell as sweet as those in the wild, but they last much longer.
He's a fool that's fond.
Better a patch than a hole.
A favour often costs more than what's hard-bought.
One volunteer is worth two pressed men.
Wenn de Appel rîp is, sau felt he.
He who wants milk should not sit in the middle of a field and wait for a cow to back up to him.
Eat until you are half full; drink until you are half drunk.
Criticism is something you can avoid by saying nothing, doing nothing, and being nothing.
Catch not a shadow and lose the substance.
Nature, time, and patience are three great physicians.
Why hide from God what the saints already know?
They who don't keep goats and yet sell kids, where do they get them?
Boastin' man brudder a de liar.
Whoso is tired of happy days, let him take a wife.
A foreseen disaster should not kill the handicapped.
In taking revenge, a man is but even with his enemy; but in passing it over, he is superior.
What an elder sees sitting; the young can't see standing.
A colt is good for nothing if it does not break its halter.
The owl sings to the nightingale.
A church stone drops gold.
No melon peddler cries, "Bitter melons." No wine dealer says, "Sour wine."
You may call me even a pot, just don't put me into the oven.
A boy isn't sent to collect the honey.
Curses are like chickens; they come home to roost.
If vodka, tar and sauna don't help, the disease leads to death.
There is meikle between word and deed.
Who doesn't listen to reason, can't do things with reason.
The more you know the less you believe.
It is not the owner, trampling his own field, that spoils it.
Death makes us equal in the grave but not in eternity.
Every hare may pluck the dead lion's mane.
Who wakes up early gets the God's help.
Possession is nine-tenths of the law.
When you go to buy, use your eyes not your ears.
Although there's nothing to eat, life is fun.
You can say anything to a man with a full stomach.
There is plenty of sound in an empty barrel.
Make fun of the man, not of his hat.
Friends tie thier purse with a cobweb thread.
Never advise someone to go to war or to get married.
Mollah is a human, if an oak will produce an almond.
To really succeed, you must enjoy eating poison.
I tried to draw the eyebrow, but I ended up poking the eye.
Every day the harm arising from carelessness is endured.
Ignorance and incuriosity are two very soft pillows.
The ass bedecked with gold still eats thistles.
equal children play best.
The dogs in Lund bark.
Adversity is the stuff that shows whether you are what you thought you were.
He who has nothing to lose is rich.
You don't burn incense at an old crucifix.
A good hater,a good lover.
Birth is the only remedy against death.
Let every bird hatch its own eggs.
One acre of performance, is worth twenty of the land of promise.
A good meal should begin with hunger.
In life, it is always possible to reach agreement in the end.
The dog that starts the hare is as good as the one that catches it.
If you give your goods without a pledge, you show little inventiveness.
Hell has been broken loose.
Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox.
He laughs most he who laughs last.
Change of fortune hurts a wise man no more that a change of the moon.
Friendship is a plant that must be often watered.
When the old woman is hard pressed, she has to run.
Live near water, and ask not about sustenance.
A woman and a hen are soon lost through gadding.
At evening the sluggard is busy.
Men cut large thongs of other men's leather.
An old error has more friends than a new truth.
The court of Rome likes not sheep without wool.
The ship does not go without the boat.
Learning is a treasure no thief can touch.
He who brings, is welcome.
You often meet your destiny on the road you take to avoid it.
Love your neighbor, but don't tear down your fence.
The world is a big place but there is so little room in it.
Who throws stones at night, kills his own brother.
There is a way from heart to heart.
He that has long legs will go far.
He who lives on illusions, dies of disillusion.
There is nothing for which the boors pray so much to God as that the horses of the squirearchy may not die, for otherwise they would ride the boors with spurs.
A merry heart makes a long life.
From a spark the house is burnt.
Young gamblers, old beggars.
To make preparations does not spoil the trip.
Victory makes you into an emperor, defeat into a rebel.
That which is obvious does not need to be explained.
Prepare a nest for the hen and she will lay eggs for you.
If he won't carry the sack, give him a whack.
A man would not lick what he spit.
People are like plants in the wind: they bow down and rise up again.
Presents make women affable, priests indulgent, and the law crooked.
Need hes no law.
Be careful of the words you say each day, make sure each is nice and sweet, because may be in the days ahead, there will be some you'll have to eat.
When the sword of rebellion is drawn, the sheath should be thrown away.
My treasures do not chink or glitter. They gleam in the sun and neigh in the night.
Nobody cries that has not been pinched.
Envy is the companion of glory.
Dance to the tune that is played.
I am not a critic; to me criticism is so often nothing more than the eye garrulously denouncing the shape of the peephole that gives access to hidden treasure.
Candlemas day, put beans in the clay; put candles and candlesticks away.
A friendly word is like a spring day.
Slow moving lion eats meat.
One written word is worth a thousand pieces of gold.
He has beans in his ears.
The poor man has his crop destroyed by hail every year.
Teach your tongue to say "I don't know” instead of to make up something.
The taller the bamboo grows, the lower it bends.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with one step.
God will provide, but a good bundle of straw will not be amiss.
The more honesty a man has the less he affects the air of a saint.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me.
Shining I inside, let him guide my heart.
Thank who gives you and give who thanks you.
The rough manners of the vulgar are contagious.
Rob Peter to Pay Paul.
Every cock can crow on his own dunghill.
Fight fire with fire.
Distrust is poison to friendship.
A bow too much bent is broken.
Men's skins have many colors, but human blood is always red.
Man is fire, woman is tow; the devil comes with a bellows.
Even a blind dove finds a grain of wheat at times.
Where there is no sore there needs no plaister.
It is useless to knock at the door of a deaf man.
An arrow once shot never comes back.
It is hard work to be the mother of many pigs.
He who earns his living in the sun, eats in the shade.
Wind and fortune are not lasting.
Courtesy on one side only never lasts for long.
When joy is in the parlour, sorrow is in the passage.
Where there is shame, there is virtue.
Only two things in life are certain; death and taxes.
Refusing and wanting at the same time.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a poor supper.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
The mule long keeps a kick in reserve for its master.
An eye is small but its usefulness is great.
Clean your own doorstep before you clean someone else's.
Little drops of water, little grains of sand, make the mighty ocean and the pleasant land.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
Good seed makes a good crop.
A sleeping fox counts chicken in his dreams.
The character of a man lies not in his body but in his soul.
Lie is quickly found out.
The greatest step is out the door.
It was the last straw that broke the camel's back.
Where gold speaks every tongue is silent.
When a shield wears out, the framework still remains.
What use is wisdom when folly reigns?
Follow the villagers when you are in the new village.
He who speaks about the future lies, even when he tells the truth.
While the sun is shining, bask in it!
Before you marry, have a house to live in, fields to till, and vines to cut.
He that blaws best should bear the horn.
Self-done, is soon done.
William Hazlitt, in Characteristics, in the manner of Rochefoucauld's Maxims.
Rules are stronger than an individual's power.
Injustice all around is justice!
(God's justice and love) smite with one hand, and embrace with the other.
When thieves fall out the peasant recovers his goods.
In studying the way, realizing it is hard; once you have realized it, preserving it is hard. When you can preserve it, putting it into practice is hard.
A sore finger and a headache are standard excuses for not going to school.
The more one lives the more one learns.
A stout heart overcomes ill fortune.
In a quarrel, leave room for reconciliation.
A good storyteller must be able to lie a little.
April, as you see me; May, as I stay; June, as I am; by July, let everything fly.
If you want to dismantle a hedge, remove one thorn bush at a time.
It's a long lane that has no turning.
It is the small expenses that empty your purse.
The goose is too small for two but too big for one.
When the pear is ripe it will drop.
The roaring lion kills no game.
Now I have got a ewe and a lamb, Every one cries, "Welcome, Peter."
I'll blind them to sell, and you look closely to buy.
Elderliness is not a disease, but a richness.
Laughter does wonders for the heart.
Buffaloes are held by ropes, man by his words.
Money spent on the mind is never spent in vain.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
Everyone is tempted to evil.
Love begins with song and music and ends in a sea of tears.
Love forgets dignity.
Haste and speed are rarely good.
Help thy self, and God will help thee.
Man must be sharpened on man, like knife on stone.
I have a good bow, but it is in the Castle.
Make yourself an ass, and you'll have every man's sack on your shoulders.
You cannot get a quart into a pint pot.
Harrow before the cow.
You can only endure the weaknesses of others by knowing your own. Flattery is the best persuader.
He that minds his business at home, will not be accused of taking part in the fray.
Laughing wife, crying purse.
It is not hard to nurse a pregnency, but it is hard to bring up a child.
A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does:.
Thievery and lying are kissing cousins.
Sensa fowl no wan fedder, but him want carn.
There is no appeal from time past.
Too large a morsel chokes the child.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present.
The one whose belly isn't full of straw isn't afraid of fire.
If you catch fish, you're a fisherman.
An upstanding peasant is bigger than a nobleman on his knees.
Sooner shall earth mount to heaven.
When a man is in trouble he smokes.
Kyoto people ruin themselves for clothing. osaka people for food.
No hi ha gloria sense enveja.
The point in question is yet undecided.
‘'Der Arme isst wenn er was hat, der Reiche wenn er will.''
There are only two ways to reach the truth -- with literature and agriculture.
Each generation will reap what the former generation has sown.
He did hear the sound of the bell, but doesn't know where the clapper hangs.
Who looks for meat will find a bone.
Every seed knows its time.
Death don't see no difference ‘tween the big house and the cabin.
A year's harvest counts on spring; a man's success counts on his diligence.
Riding on a goat is better than the very best walking.
A white day sheds light, and a black day sheds darkness.
Truth may be told in a joke too.
Suspicion is the poison of friendship.
To fall off a good horse is at least worthwhile.
Smell a rat.
Works are harder than words.
Judge a man by the reputation of his enemies.
One knows where the shoes hurt.
Kill no more than you can salt, or you will have tainted meat.
Jealousy is nourished by doubt.
Never have sex with the bosses sister.
Of evils, the least.
By writing you learn to write.
As fair greits the bairn that is dung after noon, as he that is dung before noon.
Weeping makes the heart grow lighter.
A clever man's inheritance is found in every country.
If a bamboo tube makes a loud sound, it is empty.
The costly news of today will be free tomorrow.
The beaten pay the fine.
Owning land is like fighting a war.
A short man is not a boy.
Ye're like a bad liver--the last day there's aye maist to do wi' ye.
Talk of the wolf and behold his skin.
To have a woman is bad; to lose her is worse.
If money where to be found up in the trees, most people would be married to monkeys.
It is not what you are called, but what you answer to.
Less is more.
Empty dishes rattle loudly.
Bathe her and then look at her.
Where the rooster crows there is a village.
A person whose heart is not content is like a snake which tries to swallow an elephant.
If you have five wives, then you have five tongues.
The bitter cup we strive to remove from us holds the medicine.
No man knoweth fortune till he dies.
He who keeps his own secret avoids much mischief.
It is the same life whether we spend it crying or laughing.
Provided common, commonly true.
To recognize a real friend, you have to together have eaten three bushels of salt.
There is no smoke without fire.
A white wall is the fool's paper.
Time is like a dagger; if you don't cut with it, it cuts you.
Does sheep manure turn to caramel?
I have a mouth which I feed, it must speak what I please.
If you are merciful to the antelope, you go to bed hungry.
A beggar's purse is bottomless.
A mother's lesson – a son's success.
They who eat cherries with the great, are like to have the stones and stalks flung in their face.
Macedonians are fighting.
Marrying off a daughter is like loading cargo on a ship.
Why drive away fowls from the dung you do not eat yourself?.
One cannot love and be wise.
There die as many lambs as wethers.
Every stone conceals a lurking scorpion.
A wise man who knows proverbs can reconcile difficulties.
A good appetite does not want sauce.
Quiet worms will bore a hole in the wall.
What itches in the daughter's skirt, itches also in her mother's.
Love well whip well.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost.
Not much is achieved where everyone gives the orders.
A thread from everyone will make a shirt for the needy.
In a game it's difficult to know when to stop.
It is often that a cow does not take after its breed.
Most men employ the earlier part of their life to make the other miserable.
A gentle word opens an iron gate.
Times change and we with them.
Our friends are our mirrors and show us ourselves.
The chief's wisdom is a mesh of old stories, good and bad.
Seek and ye shall find.
To friend and foe alike I tell them how bad she is, so that I don't have to share her with anyone.
Love without jealousy is like a pole with no moustache.
Who excuses himself without being accused makes his fault manifest.
Beware of too great a bargain.
Once is no custom.
Try to be in good company, even when you are alone.
To the fiancT -- milk; to the bride -- butter; to the husband -- cheese.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
Tis folly to love fetters, though they be of gold.
A man who has eaten something becomes shy.
He who fears every bush, comes late to the wood.
An empty head gets the easiest sleep.
Glass, China, and Reputation, are easily crack'd and never well mended.
The priest errs at the altar.
Better aught than nought.
He who would have good cabbage, must pay its price.
A good buy is better than a good sale.
The lizard would like to stand erect, but his tail will not permit him.
Courage is ten, nine is the ability to escape.
The ox in a strange stall often casts a longing look towards the door.
A bad wound is cured, not a bad name.
Putting importance to an irrelevant and unnecessary occasion.
You don't have to put out the fire when all is burnt out.
A gift is better than a promise.
It should be better to blame friends at a distance.
A long lawsuit breeds poverty.
A story is only half told if there is only one side presented.
No matter how fast a man is, he cannot outrun his shadow.
Better sit idle than work for naught.
His money takes the place of wisdom.
Scandal is like an egg; when it is hatched it has wings.
Punishment awaits all offences.
As long as there are lice in the seams of the garment.
A little leaven leavens a great mass.
He who is close to the fire, will get warm best.
When a trustworthy boat sets sail, Utu seeks out a trustworthy harbour for it.
Tell the truth and then run.
There is no science without patience.
Who leaves a son isn't really dead.
He who answers is inferior to the one who asks the question.
Set aside emergencies and help a woman giving birth.
He is a very bad manager of honey who leaves nothing to lick off his fingers.
Mercy or power.
To the fianct - milk; to the bride - butter; to the husband - cheese.
He who seems to be for you may be working against you.
You a lady, I a lady, who is to put the sow out of doors?
After breaking my head you bring plaister.
The advice of a woman ends with "Oh, if I had only known!"
A good beginning is half the work done.
'tis a good horse that has no fault.
Fingal's sword never had to cut twice.
If it isn't wintry in January then expect the worst in February.
Poison is booze without bread.
If you wait be prepared to be stung by the bees.
The nest made, the bird dead.
One finger does not kill a louse.
There's a man who looks like a partridge with legs like a mosquito.
Let the dead rest.
If you are going to bathe, get thoroughly wet.
However little you think of the elephant, you can't say it won't fill a pot.
He who has a choice has trouble.
The nights are short for him who married late in life.
Borrowing is like a wedding, repaying is like mourning.
You have hit the point exactly.
When you drink milk under the palm tree, people will say that it is palm wine.
Children yoke parents to the past, present and future.
Seek not the rose which is once lost.
Rest is good after the work is done.
The misfortune that comes into town does not wear a turban.
Honour buys no beef.
An abundance of food at your neighbour's will not satisfy your hunger.
It is bad iron in which there is no steel.
Two's company, the third person is an intruder.
Win a game of your friend, and drink the money on the spot.
There never was a shoe however handsome that did not become an ugly slipper.
He who knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is a fool, shun him; He who knows not, and knows that he knows not, is a child, teach him. He who knows, and knows not that he knows, is asleep, wake him. He who knows, and knows that he knows, is wise, follow him.
A hunter with one arrow doesn't shoot with a careless aim.
An empty purse can't stand alone and a full purse can't bend.
A man should not be too happy in the morning.
The chasing away of a younger son from the house of his father is an abomination to Ninurta.
Praise to the face is open disgrace.
You can kill a dog more way than by choking it with butter.
Who suffers from diarrhea, is not afraid of the dark.
Better a wise man's servant than an idiot's master.
The scholar knows what she lacks knowledge of.
Eating teaches drinking.
The nearer the church the farther from God.
A small log will overthrow a big cart.
You won't help shoots grow by pulling them up higher.
Thatch your roof before rainy weather.
What's a trumpeter's job? To blow.
A fish will not live out of water but will prefer air to hot water.
He who doesn't like chattering women must stay a bachelor.
Today it may be a fire, tomorrow it will be ashes.
He that marries ere he be wise, will die ere he thrive.
It is a sorry house where the hens crow and the cock is silent.
If you are born an ass, you will die one.
He who has, is.
A contented mind is a continual feast.
We are changed as we change our environment.
The weather vane will not work without wind.
An onion will not produce a rose.
Words in conversation are like beans, one breaks them off where they are ripe.
The cobbler should stick to his last.
Anger is a bad adviser.
Do not ask advice of the ignorant.
The woman who deceives her husband makes her lover swear never to be unfaithful to her.
Whenever the water rises, the boat will rise too.
'tis possible if true.
When you get older you keep warm with the wood you gathered as a youth.
Kill a hen to get the egg.
One who spends too much time choosing ends up with cracked wares.
If you flog a baboon because it is ugly, you will end up killing it.
Everything the power does, it does in a circle.
A wepon which you don't have in hand wont kill a snake.
We were born to die anyhow.
Renounce the devil, and thou shalt wear a shabby coat.
An hour may destroy what an age was building.
Hard upon hard does not make a good wall.
'tis altogether vain to learn wisdom, and yet live foolishly.
An hour in summer is more than a day in winter.
A girl who cannot patch man's trousers in between the legs, must not marry at all, because what use does a man have of such a stupid wife.
The husbands belong to the wives and hookers are for the wild beast.
Butter with the fish.
His hay is in order.
When house and land are gone and spent, then learning is most excellent.
A man who has his feet hacked off cannot scurry far.
Who ventures forth, succeeds.
The goslings would lead the geese out to grass.
Expecting something bigger, and we let go what we already have.
Ashes will always blow back into the face of the thrower.
The hare starts when a man least expects it.
He who doesn't open his eyes when he buys must still open his purse to pay.
Eating and drinking holds body and soul together.
Hit like a bomb.
If I put anything down it is snatched away; if I do more than is expected, who will repay me?
Hungry flies bite sore.
The ragged says to the naked: why don't you get dressed?
Where there is no jealousy a small hare's leather is enough to cover four people.
If you have honey, don't lick the pot clean.
God gives the wheat, He doesn't bake the bread.
Keep your eye on the ball.
Ten men, ten minds.
Dress up a country bumpkin and he looks like a baron.
A house without children is a graveyard.
From there comes talk like from box and every hole.
Sorrow doesn't kill, but it blights.
A barber does not shave himself.
Court not companionship with tigers.
All food is fit to eat, but not all words are fit to speak.
More flies are caught with honey than with molasses.
Cockroach ain't have nuh right at hen party.
Drunken wife gat ay the drunken penny.
Ambition and fleas both jump high.
You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
Books think for me. (Charles Lamb)
Every one feels the cold according as he is clad.
Riches serve a wise man, but command a fool.
Ninazu, a bird flying around is your share.
Pray to God but continue to row to the shore.
All the brains are not in one head.
Taking water from the same well doesn't make all the wives' gravy taste good.
The eye lets in love.
Let me go warm, and folks may laugh.
Let your love be like the misty rains, coming softly, but flooding the river.
Even a fish wouldn't get into trouble if it kept its mouth shut.
Water flows down the lowest point.
Allah gave hunger to one and hunger to another.
A man's hat in his hand, never did him any harm.
Joy shared, joy doubled: sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
These can never be true friends: Hope, dice, a prostitute, a robber, a cheat, a goldsmith, a monkey, a doctor, a distiller.
Some people like to make of life a garden, and to walk only within its paths.
We all like lamb; each has a different way of cooking it.
No man is angry that feels not himself hurt.
Youth and age will never agree. (16th century)
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow is but a vision.
Duty is heavy as a mountain but
Kindness is more binding than a loan.
Drop the jest when it is most amusing.
Repentance for silence is better than repentance for speaking.
A drunk man will sober up, but a damn fool never.
Literal meaning: He left the party without having Hommos.
You may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.
In the house of the hanged man, mention not the rope.
He never did a good day's work who went grumblingly about it.
You may judge of a man by his remarks.
Koskela from Finland. Eats iron and shits chains.
The winter will ask what we did all summer.
It is the wandering dog that finds the old bone.
Each of us must face our own responsibilities.
When goods increase the body decreases.
When good fortune finally comes, no one can ever stop it.
Seven troubles - one responce.
We must go back and reclaim our past so we can move forward; so we understand why and how we came to be who we are today.
The cabin of a loved one is never too far away.
The wild pear has blossomed: the kid goat no longer suffers.
Chestnut horses and surly men can't even cover expenses.
Confidence is a plant of slow growth.
A late Easter, a long cold spring.
God gives burdens also shoulders.
Never let a friend lie in your sheep farm he might get hungry.
A great liar has need of good memory.
Always shut the gate after the horse is out.
When in doubt of what is right, consult your pillow overnight.
Seize the offer.
Nobody hates anybody without cause.
As the bird goes from leaf to leaf, the yawn goes from man to man.
Too much sympathy with the unfortunate makes you unhappy.
Jack of all trades and master of None. (18th century)
The tongue always returns to the sore tooth.
A fool may give a wise man counsel.
To wait for luck is the same as waiting for death.
Envy always shoots at a high mark.
Next to fire, straw isn't good.
Happiness takes no account of time.
His mouth talks about sheik hussein but his hands are stretched up to the tree.
Ice in spring is treacherous; new friendships are seldom sure.
Indecision is the key to flexibility.
It's better to break than to bend.
Don't talk about a rope in the house of someone whose father was hung.
The longest road out is the shortest road home.
If you suspect someone, don't employ them; if you employ someone, don't suspect them.
Elbow-grease is a great preventative of disease.
Where you cannot climb over, you must creep under.
Lying pays no tax.
He who has land has war.
To believe a business impossible is the way to make it so.
When on an unenjoyable walk, walk faster.
He who lives without discipline dies without honor.
Blessings on him that said, Face about.
Nature, time and patience are the three great physicians.
New generation can put right the mistakes of the old.
The butterfly that brushes against thorns will tear its wings.
If your husband has many wives, the only sure way for him into you're the bedroom is through a delicious meal.
It is an egg of Columbus.
No matter how many chores you finish in your house, there is always yet more to be done.
It is well to buy oil as well as salt. [Different remedies should be at hand when required.].
I hate a jovial table companion with a good memory.
Honesty inherits the land.
Who knows most, believes least.
Learn to stand up where one falls.
Where profit is, loss is hiding nearby.
Though you see me with this coat, I have another up the mountain.
To the patient man will come all the riches of the world.
Ane year a Nurish, seven years a Daw.
There's one law for the rich, and another for the poor.
Two nightingales do not sing on one branch.
Greed keeps men forever poor, even the abundance of this world will not make them rich.
Happy is he who hath in himself praise and wisdom in life.
He is no merchant who always gains.
There's a pot gold at the end of the rainbow.
Habit is second nature.
When there is a fire in the neighbourhood carry water to your own house.
Tears will not stop flowing for someone who is crying for himself.
Skin and bones and a little dirt between.
At someone's funeral we weep for our own mothers and fathers.
The lion may be king of the jungle but he knows, he shouldn't stand in the way of the elephant.
Whim rules the child, and weather the field, each is open to chance.
Be merry, Shrovetide, for to-morrow thou wilt be ashes.
Charm is more than beauty.
You may always find an opportunity in your sleeve, if you like.
When pleasure interferes with business, give up business.
There is no time like the present. (18th century) (Citatboken)
One should do nothing with a false heart.
He who sacks his wife because she eats a lot will end up marrying a cannibal.
Sardines in January and vopa in March.
To a crazy ship every wind is contrary.
Flattery, like perfume, should be smelled, not swallowed.
Whom God loves, his bitch litters pigs.
They need much whom nothing will content.
He is miserable indeed that must lock up his miseries.
If you are to hit then make it painful, because you'll get one blame eitherways.
A wise man, a strong man.
Calling out for mother, only when you stumble.
He who is patient is always successful.
All the goats jump onto leaning trees.
There is nothing mair precious nor time.
Kings have many ears and eyes.
One cup (of liquor) is for health, second one is for fun, third one is for nothing.
Without gold even the daylight is dark.
Do not tear down the east wall to repair the west wall.
Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.
When you have brains to go along with your wealth you can call yourself happy and content.
A born leader sees which way the crowd is going and steps in ahead.
He who is bitten by a snake fears a lizard.
It's not shameful not to know, but it's shameful not to ask.
At shrove-tide every one had need of his frying-pan.
Half an orange tastes as sweet as a whole one.
The seed waits for its garden or ground where it will be sown.
He who has a mate has a master.
The face is a mask; look behind it.
A rich man is either a rogue or a rogue's heir.
He lords it like an eel in a tub.
If you are born fat you will not die thin.
Look before you leap.
He must shoot well who always hits the mark.
A scholar's ink is worth as much as the blood of the martyr.
A pig bought on credit is forever grunting.
Who is alive, always drop in...
Roast geese don't come flying into your mouth.
Charity sees the need not the cause.
Someone will be remembered by his accolades.
If the servant grows rich and the master poor, they are both good for nothing.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
It is a solace to the miserable to have a companion in their grief.
Not need to know french to ask to sleep outside.
He who undertakes to be his own teacher has a fool for a pupil.
Every worm has its hole.
There is no winter without snow, no spring without sunshine, and no happiness without companions.
Don't change horses in midstream.
For our sins God has created three enemies for us: mice in the house, the fox in the mountains, and a priest in our village.
Pulling the devil by the leg is a bad grip.
Wool is the gold of the faroes.
If you dig a grave for others, you might fall into it yourself.
Birds are caught with seed, men with money.
When the man is away, the monkey eats his corn and goes into his hut.
Hasty judgments begets remorse.
Her father's fortune will make the ugliest girl attractive.
The obvious choice is usually a quick regret.
I am not a merry man.
Real friendship is a slow grower.
A mother won't give milk to her child until he cries.
The older the man, the weaker his mind.
Enjoy the beat of other drums, but this is my song.
The eagle was killed by an arrow made from its own feathers.
Those who play the game do not see it as clearly as those who watch.
He who deals with a blockhead will need a lot of brains.
A fool and his money is one big party.
Few are fit to be entrusted with themselves.
No comforter's head ever aches.
Make haste slowly.
Every day good luck to thee, and no day of sorrow be.
Strike when the iron is hot.
Còcciula made by three is neither a failure nor a success.
Rotten straw can harm a healthy horse.
Better to write down something one time than to read something ten times.
He that despises the small is not worthy of the great.
Only water in your hands can satisfy your thirst.
The mistress is queen, the wife is the slave.
You should not have enmity with the crocodile if you are living in the water.
Even criminals have their uses; they keep sleepyheads awake.
Flowers look different in different eyes.
Monkeys must disperse once their tree falls.
Take the middle of the way and thou wilt not fall.
Who carries doubtful people to his house, will doubtless from his carriage something lose.
I don't want the cheese; I just want out of the trap.
Borrowed garments do not fit well.
Beautifully decorated plate won't feed anyone.
We are all Adam's children.
During war, weapons aren't cleaned.
The fuller the cask, the duller its sound.
A good tree bears good fruit.
He who is a friend of Christ, will soon find salvation.
You cannot hang everything on one nail.
If you go to war pray once; if you go on a sea journey pray twice; but pray three times when you are going to be married.
Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin.
Remain honorable and don't worry if you're poor.
The looking glass is the enemy of ugly women.
A bold man has luck in his train.
Unwilling service earns no thanks.
The palm-wine we drink, some people can drink it and remain wise; others lose all their senses.
A fair fire makes a room flet.
A wise man makes his own decisions, but an ignorant man mindlessly follows the crowd.
If you are the anvil, suffer; if you are the hammer, strike.
Every bush is a man.
He does not a little who burns his house: he frightens the rats, and warms himself.
As soon dies the calf as the cow.
A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are.
Good words cool more than cold water.
No corn without chaff.
The house roof fights the rain, but the person who is sheltered ignores it.
Wisdom cannot be bought with money, yet it is worth the most.
The day will come when cats have horns and dutchmen will be circumcised.
A cobbler formed the shape of shoes on a wooden foot shaped last. If it lasted long he was happy.
The beauty of a housewife will not put more fat into the soup.
The righteous man sins before an open chest.
Generally with life you will be betrayed by close relatives.
The dowry that a woman brings is like a bell; every time she passes by she hits you with the clapper.
It's easy to knead when meal is at hand.
When the sow is satisfied she throws the trough away.
The man who never makes a mistake always takes orders from one who does.
Running by one's will never gets tired.
A woman's tears are worth a lot, but cost little.
One bad eye spoils the other.
If people come together, they can even mend a crack in the sky.
He can't see the forest for the trees.
Trust in god but lock your car.
Our best masters are those who make us suffer the most.
What you have, hold.
The fear of women is the basis of good health.
A person's character is like pregnancy it cannot be hidden.
A long-tailed animal doesn't jump over fire.
The chakata fruit on the ground belongs to all, but the one on the tree is for she who can climb.
It is he who has no place to call at that moves fast through life.
Holyday time will not last forever.
Pleasures shorten tedious nights.
Your bottom is fattier and dropping down to the fire.
Carried water does not stay in the well.
It is not worth telling a lovely story at the funeral.
Loose lips sink ships.
Don't let your tongue or your paintbrush wag your tail when they are making up an inventory.
Patient people are patient to gain longevity.
Do not commit all to one boat.
Changes o' wark is a lightening o' hearts.
Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell.
Do not seek the truth, only cease to cherish your opinions.
He who lives in a glass house should be the last to throw stones.
He that counts his friend's mistakes will be abandoned by him.
Whatever the wind brings he takes away with him.
Tide and time wait for no man.
The heart of an adult is like that of an elephant.
The hatred of knaves is preferable to their company.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
Order is the soul of everything.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Lots of geese can conquer pigs... Sok lúd disznót győz.
Tigers die and leave their skins; people die and leave their names.
Every shot does not bring down a bird.
I ask not for a lighter burden, but for broader shoulders.
Set your sail according to the wind.
The canary that dances along the bush path must have its drummer in the nearby bush.
A bad sheep puts the herd to waste.
Famine hides under the granary.
Love is like fog - there is no mountain on which it does not rest.
A beautiful woman is like an axe in one's life.
He that lives well is learned enough.
Language has been given to man for hiding thoughts.
A flatterer is a secret enemy.
He who runs after good fortune runs away from peace.
A snake can shade its skin but it still remains a snake.
Schoolmaster, stick to your books; farmer, to your pigs.
Those whose palm-kernels were cracked for them by a benevolent spirit should not forget to be humble.
As many languages you know, as many times you are a human being.
To have a lot of irons in the fire.
A hand that is ready to hit may cause you great trouble.
One bean does not make a whole meal.
Never by-pass a town where a friend lives.
Any wealth that takes only a market week to acquire is sure to contain in it things for which the gods will surely come to make claims.
The cat and the rat never thought alike.
Better be dead than out of fashion.
He who marries for love has good nights and bad days.
It is the petty expenses that empty the purse.
The husband who lacks affection is like a house that lacks a roof.
He who sows the seed of discord works in the devil's barn.
Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
There is no smoke without fire. (15th century, Citatboken)
Better a daughter that has been slept on than a son who has been hanged.
More is to be got from one teacher than from two books.
A quiet tongue shows a wise head.
Life is a candle before the wind.
A fox distances itself from a crazy pup.
He hits the nail on the head.
One courts misfortune by flaunting wealth.
No matter how long a fallen tree stays in the river it can never be a crocodile.
A reflection does not see itself.
Where ambition ends happiness begins.
There's honor among thieves.
It is better to be alone than to be in bad company.
Through wisdom is a house built, and by understanding it is established.
Poke a bush, a snake comes out.
Life is half spent before we know what it is.
A mansion pulled down is half built up again.
The life of a guest is seven days.
Do not put your foot further than you can draw it back again.
Don't judge a man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins.
Blind men can judge no colours.
An empty purse frights away friends.
If you make songs about yourself, you can't blame other people for singing them.
Good watch prevents harm.
Three things are good in small doses and bad in big ones: yeast, salt, and hesitation.
You have to be smarter than the dog to teach him tricks.
The more you know the less will you sleep.
Clean your heart and mind of negative thoughts.
Search knowledge though it be in China.
An axe without a shaft is no threat to the forest.
He is poor who does not feel content.
Were every one to sweep before his own house, every street would be clean.
Break one link and the whole chain falls apart.
A house without a dog, a cat, or a little child is a house without joy or laughter.
No one is more afraid of ghosts than those that don't believe in them.
He who makes an idol of his interest makes a martyr of his integrity.
Clothes do not make the man.
Even woods have ears.
Strange sins, strange punishments.
There is nothing to be gained by buying inferior goods.
What "they say" is half lies.
The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm.
If everyone were of the same mind, there would be no market in Bilecik.
Give cheerfully with one hand and you will gather well with two.
Where law lacks, honour should eke it out.
No matter how fast the poplar grows, it will never reach heaven.
You cannot hide the sun with one hand.
Anxiety breaks a man's backbone.
A man who walks alone carries a load of palm-fronds.
There are four things every person has more of than they know; sins, debt, years, and foes.
He who owes nothing has bought nothing on layaway.
He who takes no chances wins nothing.
You may hide the fire, but what about the smoke?
There's plenty of time to bemoan bad fortune once it arrives.
Who will not feed the cats, must feed the mice and rats.
If you can't do the deed, don't block another from trying.
You will not be loved if you think of yourself alone.
When ale goes in, the wit goes out.
It is a wretched thing to injure a poor man.
A pig's tail will never make a good arrow.
He could not earn enough to buy even cold water.
He may say that he loves you, wait and see what he does for you.
The person who is rich is none the worse for being dull in accomplishments and in understanding, for being stammering in speech, or for having but one foot or one hand.
Too many words blacken your ears.
An idle mind is the devil's playground.
Ye breed of the cat, ye would fain have fish, but ye have na will to wet your feet.
It's your own lantern; don't poke holes in the paper.
The kick of a mare never hurt a colt.
Translation 2: He who sows the wind shall reap the storm.
A degenerate nobleman is like a turnip. There is nothing good of him but that which is underground.
The lucky man waits for prosperity.
Today is the scholar of yesterday.
The arguments of the strongest have always the most weight.
Before you can score, you must first have a goal.
The clown is best in his own country, and the gentleman anywhere.
Sickness is a visit by God.
If the cat sits long enough at the hole, she will catch the mouse.
Absentmindedness is searching for the horse you are riding.
A one-eyed person does not thank god until he meets a blind person at prayer.
Talking without thinking is shooting without aiming.
Truth's violinist is always beaten with his own bow.
The eye of the master does more than his two hands.
Debts make the thief.
Me today, you tomorrow.
It's the big birds that teach the young ones to flight.
Have luck, and sleep.
He invites future injuries who rewards past ones.
If you deliberate for too long, you will end up with leftovers.
A scabby head fears the comb.
Miguel, Miguel, you have no bees, and yet sell honey.
Sorrow remembered sweetens present joy.
He who has tried it, is afraid of it.
We must sow even after a bad harvest.
A diamond on a dunghill is a precious diamond still.
The word of honour of a gentleman--another pledge would be better.
Seven people don't wait for one.
You'd better have one hundred who envy you than one who is sorry for you.
The lehua blossom unfolds when the rains tread on it.
Old debts are never paid, and the new ones get old easily.
Don't question a blind man for buying a mirror, it must serve him some purpose.
Great business is good; to sit and sip this glass is better.
To set the cart before the horse.
Wade not in unknown waters.
May your enemies run with fear.
Whose life is as lightning, his words are as thunder.
The male is born to be slaughtered.
In a small house God has His corner, in a big house He has to stand in the hall.
Under the mountains is silver and gold, But under the night sky, hunger and cold.
The well-fed man does not believe in hunger.
Do not push the river, it will flow by itself.
Inexperienced young men are better off not marrying: Stay away from women! you'll be better off.
Into the mouth of a bad dog falls many a good bone.
A woman who likes to wash will find water.
Unprofitable is a fever of the world.
There can be no peace without understanding.
Early bird gets the worm.
Every hair makes its shadow.
The rich man makes mistakes and the poor men get the blame.
I felt sorry for myself because I had no shoes - until I met a man who had no feet.
A fence with supports is not overthrown by high winds.
Choose a wife to please yourself, not others.
If you see amber, ambergis is behind.
When a bird builds its nest it uses the feathers of other birds.
Be thine enemy an ant, see in him an elephant.
Dirty water does not wash clean.
The goat slaughtered for a man who is sick now.
A thief's hat is burning.
"Who is silent is seen to agree, when he ought to and might have spoken.”.
The sign invites you in, but your money redeem you out.
Do not respond to a barking dog.
We easily disbelieve those things which we desire not.
Sickness comes in haste, and goes at leisure.
For want of a nail a kingdom was lost.
Even when a girl is as shy as a mouse, you still have to beware of the tiger within.
Wherever the ram goes the sheep will follow.
May your charity increase as much as your wealth.
Prudent men choose frugal wives.
Restless feet may walk into a snake pit.
Goodwill makes the road shorter.
The man who chases mules and believes women will never get to Heaven.
The prickly branches of the palm tree do not show preference even to friends.
We can laugh happily with our children, but not with money.
Catch the bird before you build a cage.
Envy is a weight not placed by its bearer.
Pass by your enemy hungry but never naked.
A person who wants to see is people progress must first set to look into their tradition.
May it end with threats and not come to blows.
He who is struck by the lightning doesn't hear the thunder.
When you see that it's going astray, take the mule by the reins.
Don't trust your wife until she has borne you ten sons.
The best fishing is in the deepest waters.
The Lord will not fail to come, though he may not come on horseback.
It's an ill supper which come from other's hand.
Play with an ass, and he will slap your face with his tail.
Speech is silver, silence is golden.
The morning of the race is not the morning to feed your horse.
Negotiate a river by following its bends, enter a country by following its customs.
The woman without a husband doesn't have a friend.
Literal meaning: Cooking fat on honey.
Before you start up a ladder, count the rungs.
A lion lurks in everyone's heart; awake him not.
At a great river be the last to pass.
Do not plant a tree with its root upward.
He fasted for a whole year and then broke his fast with an onion.
We celebrated at the wax door, and all the time the honeycomb was empty within.
The words of the wise become sweet the day after.
A secret is a weapon and a friend.
Lizard no plant corn but him hab plenty.
An eye and a friend are quickly hurt.
Even sugar itself may spoil a good dish.
Up a creek without a paddle.
Biting and scarting is Scots folks Wooing.
To pour oil into fire.
Nurture passes nature.
Not every word requires an answer.
Keeping from falling is better then helping up.
Not every land has all at hand.
The baby is not yet born, and yet you say that his nose is like his grandfather's.
Trust not your gossip to a priest who has been a friar.
When the wine runs to waste in the cellar, he mends the cask.
He that waits for a dead man's shoes may long go barefoot.
You may lock up the cock, but the sun will still rise.
Ninety percent I'll spend on good times, women and Irish Whiskey. The other ten percent I'll probably waste. – Tug McGraw
He who wants too much doesn't catch anything.
Borrowed clothes are either too tight or too loose.
You cannot dance well on only one leg.
Marriage and shroud, from heaven will come.
The fox which was caught in a snare called: If I shall not get the whole chicken, I will not be satisfied with the drumstick.
Never get in a battle of wits without ammunition.
Where you're not known, you're judged by your appearance.
The old cask tastes of what the new cask held.
Generosity is white and pure like milk.
Adversity makes a man wise.
Spread your mantle only as you can draw it.
A Tyrone woman will never buy a rabbit without a head for fear it's a cat.
A bird has a nest, man has a home.
Do not throw pearls before swine.
If water is split, it can not be gathered up.
The belly robs the back.
If you are honored, honor yourself.
Happiness multiplies as we divide it with others.
Marry your son when you please, your daughter when you can.
Reproaches are the soap of the heart.
The cricket is never blinded by the sand of its burrowing.
A short rope ties nothing.
When a man moves away from nature his heart becomes hard.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
Adversity flatters no man.
No matter how successful a person is, he will experience some bad things too.
Keep your broken arm inside your sleeve.
If all men were just, there would be no need of valour.
Everything is good for something.
When eye no see, mout' no talk.
Enter alcohol, exit words.
Rather ten thousand lanterns from a wealthy man than one lantern from a poor man.
Ye're never pleas'd fu' nor fasting.
The early man never borrows from the late man.
Eggs should not fight stones.
Every top stands on its own bottom.
Not all people who have yawned together must get married.
If not by washing, then by rolling.
It is always well to keep hold of your horse's bridle.
The crow is a pretty bird when the jackdaw is not present.
What your eyes don't see, your stomach will take.
A thief does not like to be robbed.
A gift long waited for is sold, not given.
Don't harvest grass that you don't recognize.
However long the sun shines upon a thistle, it will never become a rose.
Wisdom is a good purchase, though we pay dear for it.
Sweet are the uses of adversity.
With man comes the quarrel.
It is better to walk than curse the road.
He that spares something to-day will have something to-morrow.
There grows nae grass at the market cross.
Many a good father has but a bad son.
Benefits turn poison in bad minds.
Let him take the oars who has learned to row.
Bad weed never dies out.
Make hay while the sun shines.
A bad workman blames his tools.
A donkey always says thank you with a kick.
It is hard to fling at the brod, or kick at the prick.
A bad broom leaves a dirty room.
The wolf never wants a pretext against the lamb.
You play with a snake and call it a worm.
Ebery day debil help tief, one day God help watchman.
The bagpipe never utters a work till its belly is full.
There is more than one way to skin a cat.
In the visible church the true Christians are invisible.
To become rich in this world, it needs only to turn one's back on God.
Wisdom doesn't always speak in greek and latin.
Unfolded by the water are faces of the flowers. Flowers thrive where there is water, as thriving people are found where living conditions are good.
A bird doesn't alert his fellow bird that a stone is coming.
He who is unable to dance says that the yard is stony.
After one pope another is made.
Often has wise counsel comes from a fool's head.
A warrior does not let a friend face danger alone.
To believe is easier than investigation.
If you call a piece of wood ‘child', you can never use it to light fire since it has become so precious.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
13 festivals in 12 months.
Life is your ability to breath out every time you breathe in.
The one who asks questions doesn't lose his way.
He who eats well is able to face an army.
One may study calligraphy at eighty.
No woman is ugly when she is dressed.
He who would seek revenge must be on his own guard.
A camel does not tease another camel about its humps.
'tis a wise child that knows its own father.
Take heed of an enemy reconciled.
Do not believe that you will reach your destination without leaving the shore.
A dead man does not speak.
Every future is not far away.
Shut your mouth and you'll catch no flies.
If you want to know if someone has money, observe his beard and his boots.
The pumpkin vine never bears watermelons.
Men who have lost heart never yet won a trophy.
After a feast a man scratches his head.
Just because he harmed your goat, do not go out and kill his bull.
I will charge thee nothing but the promise that thee will help the next man thee finds in trouble.
One rotten apple will spoil the whole barrel. or One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
It may be said that noisy barrels are easier to carry.
Beware of a man that does not talk and a dog that does not bark.
One man's punishment is a deterrent to many.
It's ill jesting with edged tools.
An angel on the road, a devil at the fireplace.
Great deeds, great songs.
We receive nothing with so much reluctance as instruction.
Where money is lacking, none enters.
If a horn deserves a jawbone, they attach one to it.
The more fools, the more laughter.
Lang leal, lang poor.
Treat me like a rabbi; watch me like a thief.
Freedom is a plateful of hard crusts.
Choose the neighbor before the house.
Life is partly what we make it, and partly what it is made by the friends whom we choose.
Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
If a man becomes powerful even his chicken and his dog go to heaven.
A gude beginning maks a gude ending.
You must be fully prepared to lose a great deal in order to make a great deal.
A borrowed cat catches no mice.
Content is an everlasting treasure.
A diligent person will soon prosper.
Without stooping down for the mushroom, you cannot put it in your basket.
Good faith is a seldom guest, when you have him, hold him fast.
Cooked food is not sold for goats.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat.
The forest not only hides man's enemies but its full of man's medicine, healing power and food.
The water in which one drowns is always an ocean.
Debts are like women, once you have them you can't get rid of them.
The spirit of women is made of quicksilver; their heart of wax.
Three women, three geese, and three frogs, make a fair.
He who spits in the air pollutes himself.
The poor man wants much, the miser everything.
A hundred "no's" are less painful than one insincere "yes."
Не that always complains is never pitied.
Reputations last longer than lives.
Imitate the snail in deliberation, the bird in execution.
Avoiding danger is not cowardice. Courage without discretion is no good.
Smiles like a wooden horse in moonlight.
Cows do not indulge in horseplay.
You won't get much fat from a dry bone.
The wish is the father of the deed.
It is pride, not nature, that craves much.
The death of not a relative is a wedding.Compared to a death of a relative.
Clapping with the right hand only will not produce a noise.
No smoke will come out from a place where there is no fire.
Plenty of words when the cause is lost.
If you know lullaby, why can't you sleep?
Let's take the blood sedimentation from the nose. - Fighting.
Who would have many friends let him test but few.
Four walls make a man free.
Prosperity lets go the bridle.
When the Turk becomes richer he takes another wife.
The poor and wretched man has long days.
Watch the fire burn on the other side of the river.
When the guest is in most favor, he will do well to quit.
The queen bee has no sting.
Bashfulness is of no use to the needy.
One fool may ask more questions than seven wise men can answer.
Don't empty the water jar until the rain falls.
A running man can slit a thousand throats in one night.
The elderly, even if deaf and blind, still know a lot.
Don't plant a seed in the sea.
The danger past, the saint cheated.
He that pelts every barking dog must pick up a great many stones.
He cannot lay eggs, but he can cackle.
Hearts do not meet one another like roads.
Some folks speak from experience; others, from experience, don't speak.
To fight once shows bravery, but to fight all the time is stupid.
Try your friend before you trust him.
Truth lies within a little and certain compass, but error is immense. (Henry St. John)
Praise without profit puts little in the pocket.
The sun shines on those who are standing before it shines on the people kneeling under them.
Arms, women, and books should be looked at daily.
Anger is the thorn in the heart.
Would you have me serve you, good king, give me the means of living.
An honest wife is a treasure that lasts, a sad wife is worse than the plague.
It is the seed of the umya.
Good music goes with good food.
The Chicken teaches the hen to lay eggs.
Don't fight a lion with a stick.
If only youth would know, if only old age were able.
Every time the sheep bleats it loseth a mouthful.
One sprinkles the most sugar where the tart is burned.
In a treeless country, the castor-oil plant is a big tree.
Let every pedlar carry his own pack.
Only fools pay retail.
Don't take every ill to the doctor, or every quarrel to the lawyer, or every thirst to the tavern.
Wheat stalks heavy with grain learn how to bow their heads.
Gude health is better than wealth.
Don't throw away the old bucket until you know whether the new one holds water.
Care killed the cat.
Laws control the lesser man... Right conduct controls the greater one.
I'll no tell a lee for scant o' news.
All things are becoming to good people.
You never are so easily mistaken as when you think you know the way.
The ear cannot hold as much water as it does news.
A mans greatest shortcoming is that he neglects his own field and weeds that of others.
To a hasty question a leisurely answer.
The ox which has no horns, relies for help on the one that has them.
It hits like a grip on a pig.
Every story has two sides and every song has twelve versions.
He that goes a-borrowing, goes a-sorrowing.
Spoken words cannot be taken back.
Finger stink you can't cut it trow it wey.
As mony heads, as mony wits.
Eating slowly is good for the stomach; plowing deeply is good for the fields.
Not every ass has long ears.
Two birds disputed about a kernel, when a third swooped down and carried it off.
Poverty is a wonderful thing. It sticks to a man after all his friends have forsaken him.
Ask someone else for advice but keep your knowledge to yourself.
One can't die if he's brave. Even when he die his name lasts forever.
It is easier to carry an empty cup than one that is filled to the brim.
When it rains porridge the beggar has no spoon.
The ass carries corn to the mill, and gets thistles.
It is better to give than to lend and it costs about the same.
He has eaten his corn in the blade.
If mushrooms grew in the mouth, that would be not mouth but kitchen garden.
One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor among them. When it comes to three, they have to go thirsty.
Do not dwell in a city whose governor is a physician.
Bad children? guilty parents.
Quarreling dogs come halting home.
No matter how wise you are, you cannot trace footsteps in water.
He who does not go to sea knows not how to pray.
Passed waters can't move the mills.
From a jest comes a strife.
To be lucky you need a little wit.
Old horses don't forget the way.
Sleep is half of health.
Go slowly and come slowly so that the cat won't gore you.
A middle course is the safest.
Don't go early or late to the well.
God is our general in time of war.
Where the carcass is, there shall the eagles be gathered together.
Love and ambition admit no fellowship.
No one is too old to learn.
From gods that are left alone, there is no curse.
He who heeds not the lost shoe-nail, will soon lose the horse.
Wise men learn by other men men's harms, fools by their own.
Do good to a knave, and pray God he may not do the same to thee.
The God who made the mouth will provide the food.
Opportunity makes the thief.
It is better to be the head of a mouse, then the tail of a lion.
Escape from a tiger to be eaten by a crocodile.
Earth is dearer than gold.
A hawk's marriage: the hen is the better bird.
Petty thieves are hanged, the great ones go free.
Iron that is not used soon rusts.
A tree does not move unless there is wind.
Do not be tricked into thinking that there are no crocodiles just because the water is still.
The monkey says there is nothing better than poverty to unlearn man of his conceit.
The higher the monkey climbs the more him expose.
On April 8th, the cuckoo's call must be heard. If it isn't, either the cuckoo is dead or is going to die.
He who begins and does not finish loses his labor.
Gluttony has killed more than the sword.
To forget is impossible.
He who protects himself from cold also wards off heat.
Never heed the colour of a gift horse.
One wolf does not kill another.
A new net won't catch an old bird.
Honor is determined by your dress.
Small rain lays great dust.
A precipice in front of you, and wolves behind you; that is life.
It is easier to wage war with wise enemies than be at peace with foolish friends.
The nail supports the hoof, the hoof the horse, the horse the man, the man the world.
As a man eats, so he works.
Tell your secret to your friend and he will set his foot on your neck.
A new servant can catch a running deer.
It's the merry drizzle that makes grass grow fine.
He sold his vinyard and bought a squeezer.
Out of ten men there are nine wives.
One does not achieve honor.
The little ant at its hole is full of courage.
Where vain-glory reigns, folly is prime counsellor.
A poor joke must invent its own laughter.
Walk straight and you will not fall.
Play not with a man till you hurt him, nor jest till you shame him.
The difficult is done at once, the impossible takes a little longer.
Drive not too many ploughs at once, some will make foul work.
Distance is the best remedy against an evil-disposed man.
Just as a bamboo cane forms a round jet of water, so taking counsel together makes men of one mind.
Fire will not put out fire. Anger is not appeased by anger.
A barren woman is like a leaking pot.
The lord will drench you with his showers, but he will dry you with his sun.
A stupid turtle-dove is sometimes surprised by night for wanting one more grain of castor-oil plant.
Bread and salt never quarrel.
Who laughs early will cry later.
What the people believe is true.
A master's request is a command.
The woman in finery, the house in filth, but the doorway swept.
If ever ye make a lucky pudding, I shall eat the prick.
A drunken donkey will not remember the monkeys bite.
You can run away from your elder, but she'll still out-think you.
The pole of his cart is pointing outwards.
The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
Morning dreams come true.
Bad legs and ill wives should stay at hame.
Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand.
Who doesn't want to stay with friends, is either a cop, a cuckold, or a spy.
When a lion roars, he does not catch game.
‘Twixt the spoon and the lip, the morsel may slip.
Having a priest in the house is paradise on earth.
The most dangerous thing a man needs is woman.
This dead person is not worth all of this grief.
A turtle is not proud of his long neck.
Wives from the mountains and husbands from the cities.
In choosing a friend, go up a step.
Not worth a hill of beans.
Like saint like offering.
For each man produced by heaven, earth provides a grave.
Better a good hope than a bad possession.
He that will be rich before night, may be hanged before noon.
However much the world degenerates, man shall never find worms in salt.
The dead will go to the village where the cock doesn't crow.
Good health is above wealth.
When the cat's away the mice will play.
There is no cow on the ice.
He who stands godfather to a wolf should have a dog under his cloak.
The miser and the pig are of no use till dead.
Eild wald have Honour.
During a storm you do not take shelter under just one roofing tile.
You easily lend bread to the one who has flour.
The plagiarist turns the body inside-out and changes the bones.
Borrowed wives, like borrowed books, are seldom returned.
An ill-paying job is better than a lucrative heist.
Many kiss the hand they would gladly see cut off.
I know nothing about it, I haven't seen it; that is the best answer.
Cut not the bough that thou standest upon.
My home is my castle.
Collect the water while it rains.
If your cornfield is far from your house, the birds will eat your corn.
It's healthier to wear out many boots and few bed sheets.
Third time is the charm.
The foolish has a wagging tongue.
There is no example for an unjust court.
The court official in one life has seven rebirths as a beggar.
A rock in the middle of the sea is never afraid of the rain.
He is my friend who grinds at my mill.
Boldness in business is the first, second and third thing.
No evil, but only the good will last.
Example is better than correction.
The sack has found its patch.
The ant that destroys a kola nut lives inside it.
Wise rats run from a falling house.
Whatever is to be a nettle, burns early.
Laziness keeps on and on, but it arrives at poverty.
Take a dog for a companion and a stick in your hand.
If neither animal nor vegetable you be, then mineral you are.
To a man wine is like water is to the boat; it can carry him or guzzle him up.
There is no better manure than the farmer's foot.
Man hab cow him look fi milk.
A red lacquer dish needs no decoration.
Hope is our only comfort in adversity.
What bird so white as mine? says the crow.
The way you call into the mountain is the way the echo will sound.
The forest will answer you in the way you call to it.
Glory to the brave people.
When the fields are flooded you'll have hunger, when they're snow covered there'll be plenty to eat.
The angry hammer works off his fury on the steel.
To one who understands, few words are needed.
Older than you by a day, more knowledgeable than you by a year.
There is no wise response to a foolish remark.
There's no worse struggle than one that never begins.
One man driven by distress does as much as thirty.
Woe to him who sits upon a branch.
Flog my erring child comes from the lips, "don't hurt him/her" comes from the bottom of the heart.
The summer comes and kisses the child, the winter comes and kills it.
Let those pater nosters be for your own soul.
Fools die young and look sickly.
Bat en guet Hake sin well, maut sik bi der Tit krümmen.
Small circumstances produce great events.
We have to fight for our freedom as long as it takes, and we shall not mind the death following our struggle for independence.
On Saint Thomas the Divine kill all turkeys, geese and swine.
A stick for the nobody, a hint for the nobleman.
The jaws have nothing to chew if the feet do not walk.
Fuel is not sold in a forest, nor fish on a lake.
When one shuts one eye, one does not hear everything.
Ask my chum if I am a thief.
Pigeons are taken when crows fly at pleasure.
He is a fairy beggar that may not goe by ane mans door.
The best way to eat the elephant standing in your path is to cut it up into little pieces.
So lovers, to their fair one fondly blind, E'en on her ugliness with transport gaze.
Fair flowers to not remain long by the wayside.
It is good to marry late or never.
Easily grasped are the crimes of a hog.
Learning is weightless, treasure you can always carry easily.
The weakness of the enemy makes our strength.
A good deed dies when it is spoken about.
Abuse doesn't hang on the collar.
He who loves well is slow to forget.
Tree would bend when it bears fruit.
Cease your jests, there is no joke in being ill-natured.
Don't burn the candle at both ends.
Think everything carefully before committing yourself because there is no point for regretting it later.
Small profits are sweet.
You should not paint the devil on the wall.
A buddha made of mud crossing a river cannot protect even himself.
Don't think about the pig until it's in the poke.
Stolen sugar is the sweetest.
Let him who is well off stay where he is.
And ne'er be seen againe.
The radiant and well-understood speech of one person is better than the speech of a thousand people that is not.
What use to cover a mend in the Mona Lisa with a crayon.
Masters are fighting, servants' forelocks are creaking.
Cast no roses before swine.
It takes a heap of licks to drive a nail in the dark.
A carpenter is known by his chips.
When the ass was invited to the wedding feast he said, "They need more wood and water."
The mae the merrier, the fewer the better cheer.
With carefulness you realize your opportunity.
Misfortunes are, in morals, what bitters are in medicine: each is at first disagreeable; but as the bitters act as corroborants to the stomach, so adversity chastens and ameliorates the disposition.
If every day was a sunny day, who would not wish for rain?
You can tell a ripe corn by its look.
Void of a long-term plan will bring you trouble soon.
A good name is better than a girdle of gold.
Adversity is the touchstone of friendship.
Knowing but not telling it is what kills old men. Hearing but not heeding it is what kills young men.
Fire in the heart sends smoke into the head.
In the looking-glass we see our form, in wine the heart.
If one tells you the harira is cold, tell him to put his hand in it.
If there is room in the heart, there is room for the behind.
Keep good company and you shall be of the number.
Privateer, sail while you have a good wind.
We taught them how to beg, they raced us to the gates.
I see the better course and approve of it; I follow, alas! the worse!
In the ditch where water has flowed, it will flow again.
He that is not gallant at twenty, strong at thirty, rich at forty, or experienced at fifty, will never be gallant, strong, rich, or prudent.
When the cat's away, it is jubilee with the mice.
The fool who is silent passes for wise.
Whose stick, his buffalo.
You need a brother, without one you're like a person rushing to battle without a weapon.
The bucket goes so often to the well that it leaves its handle there.
One should not send a cat to deliver cream.
If the skin of your belly is tight, the skin of your eyelids can sleep.
With tender words you have less luck with a woman than with jewels.
Give your children too much freedom and you lose your own.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle.
Really to stop criticism one must die.
Great haste breaks the yam tuber.
Ae swallow makes nae simmer.
He that will have no trouble in this world must not be born in it.
Many women, many words.
You bring your own evil deeds to light.
Some like carrots others like cabbage.
He who cannot bear misfortune is truly unfortunate.
If an opportunity is not taken when it comes, it passes away.
Don't kick the horse you have to ride.
When the ale is in, wit is out.
He who wanders along the beach doesn't eat his rice dry.
A bairn must creep ere he gang.
After the hyena has gone, the dog barks.
Put the light out, and all women are alike.
Beware of still water, a still dog, and a still enemy.
Render the service paid for.
A covetous man serves his riches, not they him.
Dream different dreams on the same bed.
You do not run into mountains, but people yes.
Raise your sail one foot and you get ten feet of wind.
All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement.
Prophet copies a prophet.
The night forms a cover for sinners.
It is the pot that boils but the dish that gets the credit.
Give the fool a sausage and he tells you it's bent.
You compare the tortoise to the hare.
Who is up to mischief will get beaten.
When the sky looks like a hot oven, if no rain today, rain tomorrow.
Freedom or death.
Bed rest cures a hurt leg and a sling heals a hurting arm.
Nobody sees a miracle from this shrine.
There's no evil that lasts a hundred years, nor a body that can endure it.
Whoever tastes from the head of a poppy will not expect any thing from love.
If you love your son, let him travel.
No one is always right.
A wounded soul is difficult to heal.
Man's goodness is a flame that can be hidden but never extinguished.
Many open a door to shut a window.
Death is a camel that lies down at every door.
The cat shuts its eyes when stealing cream.
A near neighbour is better than a distant cousin.
Make your son you heir and not your steward.
After dinner rest a while, after supper walk a mile.
A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
Only the fool points at his origins with his left hand.
The bone doesn't come to the dog, but the dog goes to the bone.
It's no use crying over spilt milk.
It is better to be right than in the majority.
A bent head is not touched by the sword.
When the rooks are silent the swans begin to sing.
As the master, so the work.
Proverbs are the people's wisdom.
Better twice remembered than once forgotten.
Quhair the Pig breaks, let the shels lie.
When the deal is done, discuss it no more; it is difficult to collect dispersed water.
Ladies in slacks should not turn their backs.
It chances in an hour, that happens not in seven years.
If you climb up a tree, you must climb down the same tree.
Man is the flower of the earth.
Gold like the sun melts wax and hardens clay.
To rebel in season is not to rebel.
War camp Utti: oh shit, my intelligence disappeared!
She only is chaste, who is chaste where there is no danger of detection: she who does not, because she may not, does.
They who play with edged tools must expect to be cut.
There are as many good fish in the sea as ever came out of it.
If you go too near your relatives, they will not respect you.
The person that learns well also defends himself well.
In a quarrel between a husband and his wife, keep away.
Be the first to the field and the last to the couch.
Be still and the earth will speak to you.
Life is like a boat you move on when you paddle and stay in the same place if not.
Love is the rock of youth and the shoal of old age.
Fortune is a woman; if you neglect her today do not expect to regain her tomorrow.
Small birds lay small eggs.
Water quenches the thirst but does not teach you how to sing.
Give unto the king what is the king's, and unto God what is God's.
Any man can make a mistake; only a fool keeps making the same one.
The best cook drops a whole tomato.
One ass calls the other a pack animal.
Eating and drinking wants but a beginning.
Truth is like sugar cane; even if you chew it for a long time, it is still sweet.
To every bird its nest seems fair.
If Catania had a port, Palermo would be dead.
A man is known to be mortal by two things, sleep and lust.
Courts grant not their favours as men are good and deserving.
Too much happiness brings tears in our eyes.
Better face a danger once than be always in fear.
Wife's sense is short and broad.
Adam got a hoe, and Eve got a spinning-wheel, and thence come all our nobles.
The young cannot teach tradition to the old.
Be certain and on the level.
Good, good, good, but God keep my ass out of his rye.
It is good fishing in muddy water.
A good appetite needs no sauce.
One good father can do more than 100 schoolmasters.
Better to turn back than to lose your way.
Seeing the Kremlin stars - going forward braver.
Too much familiarity breeds contempt.
A blustering night, a fair day follows.
What butter or whiskey will not cure is incurable.
There's always room for a tasty treat.
He who knows not how to employ his leisure hath more cares on his mind than the most busy of busily-engaged men.
As though a bird had flown up from under your feet.
The worst of a lawsuit is that out of one there grow a hundred.
Barking of dogs cannot be heard in heaven.
A little pepper burns a big man's mouth.
When you try to walk the straight and narrow you get pebbles in your shoes.
He who asks may be a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever. .
You cannot make bricks without straw.
Clean bodies, pure morals.
It does not matter if your tavern sits in a remote location so long as the smell of your wine is appealing.
One must fill the pitcher while the water is flowing.
One cannot drink porridge without getting some on his moustache.
As unsteady as an egg on a stick.
Better sparrow in the hand than pigeon on the roof.
A bird cannot roost but on one branch.
If everyone gives one thread, the poor man will have a shirt.
Only scratch where you can reach.
Confide a secret to a dumb man and he will speak.
Wait, steed, to graze on green grass.
A house divided will soon fall.
Sleep and wait for good luck.
Every man must go to the mill with his own sack.
Wealth rarely brings happiness.
He who is carried on the back must cling on.
The more shepherds, the less care.
Everyone has his master.
Only what you have combated for will last.
If you would live in health, grow old early.
Old rust is for the stranger.
A true gentleman will respect a woman even in her weakness.
The owner of the skin is the one to tan it.
Wonder lasts but nine nights in a Town.
Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden.
The first step to health is to know that we are sick.
Better to dam the brook than the creek.
Learning is treasure no thief can touch.
Noiseless is the approach of the avenging deities.
Who fails to show restraint in their youth, will be miserable in their old age.
Fear no man, and do justice to all men.
Far fought, and dear bought, is good for Ladies.
Ignorance of one's misfortunes is clear gain.
There is little use building a fence around the garden to keep out the rabbits.
If you see a man in a gown eating with a man in rags, the food belongs to the latter.
No rose without a thorn, or a love without a rival.
Those who make laws should not break laws.
Kissing don't last but cooking do.
It is pleasant to cut thongs on another man's leather.
Every man's tale is good till anither's be tauld.
There is no education like adversity.
The Sun rises for everybody.
Water is the oldest medicine.
Beware of the vinegar of sweet wine.
A friend you have to buy; enemies you get for nothing.
A timely tear is better than a misplaced smile.
The laugh is always on the loser.
God's mills mill slowly, but surely.
He studies the Bible of fifty-two leaves.
The poor must dance as the rich pipe.
Better a dog fawn on you than bark at you.
A bird in the hand is worth ten in the bush.
A pot of milk is ruined by a drop of poison.
By bravely enduring it, an evil which cannot be avoided is overcome.
And still come home to roost!
A whitewashed crow soon shows black again.
Only he who knows his own weaknesses can endure those of others.
The word of a woman is a bundle of water.
Michel de Montaigne, Of Liars, Book I, Chapter IX.
People get the government they deserve.
He who handles pitch, besmears himself.
Plant each day and you will eat.
Whose end of tongue is sharp, the edge of his head must be hard.
You cannot prevent the birds of sorrow from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from building nests in your hair.
All of you that intend to ring, you undertake a dangerous thing.
A favor given to man is appreciated by none.
Learning is better than becoming rich.
he makes the water muddy to fish.
He who buys what he cannot pay for, sells what he would rather not.
Every tree has its worm to eat it.
You are invited to join the hunt when your nets are in evidence.
A rich man will get his carriage over the mountains, a poor man will lose his way on a level plain.
A man can not sit down alone to plan for prosperity.
Men have three ears: one on the left of the head, one on the right of the head, and one in the heart.
The cowherd who has fodder has bread, and if he doesn't have fodder then he ends up without oxen and without bread.
When cats are hairdressers, rats will always go around with uncombed hair.
The good that you fail to do is gone forever.
Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market.
A man is known by the company he avoids.
The pot-lid is always badly off: the pot gets all the sweet, the lid nothing but steam.
In a family if you have somebody who is troublesome it's the family members who are worried than the troublesome member.
It is not want but abundance that makes avarice.
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their honey.
A creaking gate hangs long.
Strauss, Emanuel (1994). Dictionary of European proverbs (Volume 2 ed.). Routledge. p. 600. ISBN 0415096243.
No iron is so strong that it cannot be melted down, and no business so dirty that can be fixed with money.
An oil lamp feels proud to give light even though it wears itself away.
He has done like the Perugian who, when his head was broken, ran home for his helmet.
Sour said the fox about rowanberries.
The future belongs to the man who rises early.
A fair wife and a frontier castle breed quarrels.
Bold in design, but timid in execution.
He who at twenty understands nothing, at thirty knows nothing, and at forty has nothing, will lead a wretched old age.
If you marry a monkey for his wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains as is.
Rains always follow the forest.
Don't swap horses when crossing the stream.
Runs like having the head as the third foot.
He who builds by the roadside has many surveyors.
Office without pay makes thieves.
Soup is not eaten as hot as it is cooked.
A wealthy man can afford anything except a conscience.
When the river is deepest it makes least noise.
They brag most of their ancestors who are unworthy of them.
He that boasts of his own knowledge proclaims his ignorance.
It will soon show which milk will yield a good curd.
The sun is red at dawn and red at sunset. Great men are unchanged in prosperity and in distress.
For a job we need time. For fun we need one hour.
The fish, seeing the water has dried up, struggles mightily in the mud.
A plant loses its blossom as soon as it bears fruit.
Pepper is black and hath a good smack.
Regrets are like a child, They come some considerable time after event.
When an ass kicks you, never tell it.
You can measure the depth of the sea but what about a man's heart?
He is a man as a book.
Smart people are blessed.
It is not the time to go for the doctor when the patient is dead.
Now that I have an ewe and a lamb, every one says to me: Good morrow, Peter.
If I can get his cart at a Waltar, I shall lend it a put.
The habit doesn't make the monk.
Let your trouble tarry till its own day comes.
One time is no time - two times is a habit.
A man with trousers that are too short should wear long suspenders.
A wolf's mourning is the fox's feast.
It is a thief that can trace the footsteps of another thief on a rock.
You cannot cover up the sun with a sieve.
Work doesn't scare him, but he could lay down near it and sleep.
A cat is a lion to mouse.
From the direction of the wind.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity.
Grief itches but scratching it makes it worse.
The first seeding on the feast of All Saints and the last on the feast of Saint Andrew.
You should not demise what you get for free.
You burn incense before the god, and then topple him.
The egg will be more knowing than the hen.
It takes a smart woman to be a fool.
When your own funeral is approaching, you don't pick and choose your grave diggers.
Give the white child so that the black child doesn't cry.
Being in love is like feeling the sun from both sides.
It is in vain for a man to rise early who has the repute of lying in bed all the morning.
The skin of a lion covering some mongrel beast.
No pear falls into a shut mouth.
There isn't a saturday without sun, nor a woman without love.
When you wait for tomorrow it never comes. When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes.
To listen well is as powerful a means of influence as to talk well and is as essential to all true conversation.
Saying and doing are two different things.
When wine comes in, modesty leaves.
If poor, act with caution.
Advice sharpens a rusty opinion.
You teach the dolphin to swim!
Too much wax burns the church.
A fire will sear and the sun burn yet more, but neither can match the ardor of a man's heart.
There is no table without wine nor sermon without Augustine.
If two neighbors want to fight, they will find a quarrel in a straw.
Much meat, much disease.
Salt and bread make the cheeks red.
The body of the pope takes up no more room than the sexton's.
Foul linen should be washed at home.
If thou touchest pitch thou shalt be defiled.
No herb will cure love.
The tree breaks that takes all the force of the wind.
He counts his chickens before they are hatched.
It is an ill wind that blows nobody any good.
The other side of the road always looks cleanest.
Seven days is the length of a guest's life.
You know, you teach. You do not know, you learn.
Anxious about the shoe, but disregarding the foot.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days - then on the third day give him a hoe.
Many stars cannot be concealed by a small cloud.
If you want to destroy your enemy, give him an elephant.
When you play the flute in zanzibar all africa dances.
Don't marry for money, you can borrow it cheaper.
Poverty craves many things, but avarice more.
A landmark is very well placed between the fields of two brothers.
A lie has no legs, but a scandal has wings.
ie One eye of a master sees more than four of a servent.
The rich have no heart, the lake never floats a pin.
That which is written, is meant to be read.
Every man forges his own destiny.
Ripe fruit falls by itself, but it does not fall into your mouth.
The devil can make a pot but he can't make a lid.
Starved lice bite the hardest.
A liar's candle will burn until bed-time.
What a fool does in the end, the wise man does in the beginning.
Even an eagle will not fly higher than the sun.
Expect not at another's hand what you can do by your own.
Ask for too much so that you can get enough.
You must contrive to bake with the flour you have.
The good sailor is proven in a storm.
Saying is one thing, doing another.
He who never eats pumpkins with you, you prepare a few slices for him.
Wisdom is lost in a fat man's body.
When everybody says you are drunk, go to sleep.
Close but no cigar.
If it weren't for my need to fill my belly, I would have gilded my arm.
A dog you don't feed will never heed your call.
Carrying water to the sea.
There's no making a silk purse of a sow's ear.
In every pomegranate a decayed pip is to be found.
Pray to God, but continue rowing towards the shore.
Instead of having a handful of gold, it [could be better] to have a handful of earth (i.e. a piece of land).
He who who flings a stone amid a crowd, does not know the it hits.
He who starts a lawsuit makes a hole in the dike.
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.
Love begins at home.
There's no accounting for taste.
Don't leave for tomorrow what you can do today.
There are formalities between the closest of friends.
If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold.
He is your friend who gets you out of a scrape.
Distrust a prairie-dog and fix it.
The cow licks no strange calf.
The prosperity of a country is in accordance with its treatment of the aged.
The ox that tossed me threw me into a good place.
A drum that is sounded loudly will soon split.
When the goose trusts the fox then woe to her neck.
A man without a wife is like a field without a fence.
The scythe has met the stone.
Love can do much, money can do all.
How gently glides the married life away, When she who rules still seems but to obey.
Only a medicine man gets rich by sleeping.
Love is without reason.
Success or ruin.
To a person who has real shame, words are oath.
A bad name is like a stigma.
A man who will go mad next year starts to roll up his sleeves this year.
One Englishman can beat three Frenchmen.
If you don't know the path to the spring or swamp, follow the trail of broken pots.
He who predicts or prophesise isn't the one who causes his predictions to take shape.
Don't use an axe to do embroidery.
If the mountain won't come to Mohammed, Mohammed must come to the mountain.
If Bastelica had a port, Ajaccio would be its garden.
There is no remedy against the bite of a secret slanderer.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
One's son is clever while the neighbor is suspicious.
For some of us happiness comes while we sleep.
Envy shoots at others and wounds itself.
To protest and knock one's head against the wall is what everybody can do.
Six men give a doctor less to do than one woman.
Little is done where many command.
The devil catches most souls in a golden net.
Judge not of a ship as she lies on the stocks.
When you go to dance, take heed whom you take by the hand.
Envy and greed grow on the same stalk.
You don't give someone a goat for a gift and still hold on to the rope.
Who is known as an early riser may sleep longer.
Every blind man weeps for his eyes.
Quarrelsome dogs get dirty coats.
Don't take a second mouthful before you have swallowed the first.
Honest men marry soon, wise men never.
He who marries ill, is long in becoming widowed.
A cat can look at de queen.
Never say, of this water I will not drink, of this bread I will not eat.
The ambitious one makes friends with the elephant, then tramples upon the ant.
Cut off the dog's tail, he remains a dog.
He has fallen off the donkey, but has found a date.
Compare your griefs with those of other men and they will seem less.
Fain would the cat fish eat, But she is loth to wet her feet.
Fish for the moon in the water.
It is only the blind who ask why they are loved who are fair.
Moss grows on a lying stone.
Where there is sugar, there are mice.
Even an ass will not fall twice in the same quick sand.
How beautiful to watch the rain and not get wet.
God heals and the doctor has the thanks.
A mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
The man who takes legal action often loses an ox to win a cat.
Nanni cherished his old age. [...] He captured Simurrum, but [...] he never saw mighty kingship. Thus Nanni was carried off to the nether world.
A dog that barks doesn't bite.
If two selfish young men sit next to a pot of water, the water spills out on the ground.
Constant occupation prevents temptation.
It may not pay to weigh everyone in the same scales.
Shame comes to no man unless he himself help it on the way.
One man may better steal a horse than another look on.
Winter will ask you what you did during the summer.
Being warned, let us pursue a better course.
Marrying for love is risky, but god smiles on it.
There's muckle ado when muirland folk ride.
Adversity brings knowledge, and knowledge wisdom.
The earth will cover the doctor's mistakes.
Everything may be bought except day and night.
To tell the dog to catch, and the rabbit to run.
A man who is putting on his armour for war should not boast like a man who's taking it off.
It is seldom the fault of one when two argue.
A friend to my table and wine is no good neighbor.
When industry goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window.
Whoever gossips to you will gossip of you.
What counts is not necessarily the size of the dog in the fight - it's the size of the fight in the dog.
A person is unlucky who falls on his back and breaks his nose.
Advice after the mischief is like medicine after death.
Fooled once shame on you, fooled twice shame on me.
The more by law, the less by right.
A black cow also gives white milk.
Wait for a month before you praise a horse, and for a year before you praise a woman.
Wha canna gie will little get.
The grace of God is found between the saddle and the ground.
Hatred renewed is worse than at first.
Perhaps you do not understand me because you do not love me.
The room and the stove are one item.
Others' bread is too salt.
God comes with leaden feet but strikes with iron hands.
Who serves well and says nothing makes claim enough.
Man cannot reach perfection in a hundred years; he can fall in a day with time to spare.
Blows are not given upon conditions.
We will be known by the tracks we leave behind.
Love rules without rules.
There are three tasty morsels: figs, peaches, and melons.
The exception proves the rule.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
The nail that sticks out is the one that gets hammered down.
There's two theories to arguing with a man/woman. Neither one works.
The cross in the chest, but the devil in the facts.
The fox changes his skin, but keeps the rogue.
As you sow, you shall reap.
Try the ice before you venture on it.
Bargains are dear.
Even Christ's coffin was not guarded for nothing.
Man's heart is never satisfied; the snake would swallow the elephant.
A farmer does not boast that he has had a good harvest until his stock of yams lasts till the following harvest season.
The nightingale will run out of songs before a woman runs out of conversation.
The best advice I know in life is don't give too much.
If you always say "no', you'll never be married.
Better to kiss a knave than be troubled with him.
A horse aged thirty: don't add any more years.
That usury is a sin some hold, but take for granted they've no gold.
More flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
If I wrestle with a filthy thing, win or lose, I shall be defiled.
The hand goes only where the leg goes.
The hammer shatters glass but hardens steel.
God likes help when helping people.
He who digs a pit for others, falls into it himself.
Let your anger set with the sun and not rise again.
Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest.
Who has said ‘yes' once already should not say ‘no' any more.
Hard is for any man all faults to mend.
He that would beat his dog can easily find a stick.
Each hour injures, the last one slays.
The only sure thing about luck is that it's sure to change.
It is not the fine, but the coarse and ill-spun that breaks.
Paddle together, bail, paddle; paddle, bail; paddle towards the land.
Let God handle it, He's a venerable saint.
Lose no rights, and commit no extortions.
When a father praises his son, he flatters himself.
First try and then trust.
A man may woo where he will, but he will wed where his luck lies.
Nine is near ten.
He that spends his geir on a whore, hes both shame and skaith.
A donkey in saxony is a professor in rome.
Let not the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.
Little things are pretty.
When God says today, the devil says tomorrow.
The fly flutters about the candle till at last it gets burnt.
Beat a chinese long enough and he will talk tibetan.
I have” is a better bird than "if I had.
Two are holy: a church and a sauna.
Ask not what your country can do for you ask what you can do for your country.
If you want to give a sick man medicine, let him first be really ill -- so that he can see how well the medicine works.
Thoughts are toll free, but not hell free.
Every little helps to lighten the freight, said the captain, as he threw his wife overboard.
Self-love is bad, and makes the eyes sad.
The king lies doun, yet the warld rins round.
The donkey sweats so the horse can be decorated with lace.
Whoever cares to learn will always find a teacher.
To remove something from its proper place is an abomination to Ninurta.
Praise the day at sunset.
He who would climb the ladder must begin at the bottom.
When there's little meat, take the bone.
Few words sufficeth to a wise man.
Caught between a rock and a hard place.
A priest's belly is made up of several sheepskins.
Death is an experience best shared.
A ruined people are as miserable as a dog in the house of death.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
A person's character reaches town before the person does.
He drinks like a brushmaker.
If you are a friend of the captain, you can wipe your hands on the sail.
The rope you pullin' no de rope I cuttin'
Foresight could make wise men of durraman's donkeys.
Water for oxen, wine for kings.
Great men do not seek power; it thrust upon them.
He who wants pearls has to dive into the sea.
A good beginning ensures a good ending.
The less you know, the less you forget.
Truth's cloak is often lined with lies.
You must empty a box before you fill it again.
When you sleep in a house your thoughts are as high as the ceiling, when you sleep outside they are as high as the stars.
All things at first appear difficult.
More hideous than a pig.
To the bold man Fortune holds out her hand.
Do not follow a person who is running away.
Better go round than be drowned.
There is a tile on the roof.
A hungry man is glad to get boiled wheat.
Black soil produces white bread.
Bury truth in a golden coffin, it will break it open.
If it is not broken don't try to fix it.
Were he to throw a groat on the roof, it would come down a dollar.
Once dead the good and the bad are covered by the same moss.
Friends and mules fail in hard trials.
A great man will not trample on a worm, nor sneak to an emperor.
All birds will flock to a fruitful tree.
She is as undecided as an orphan: if she does not wash her hands, she will be told that she is a dirty child; if she washes her hands she will be told that she is wasting water.
To the ass, or the sow, their own offspring appears the fairest in creation.
He who hasn't seen mountains and castles is amazed by the sight of an oven.
Avarice is the root of all evil.
By getting angry, one shows that she is wrong.
You can only know the fleas in the bed you have slept in.
Eat with pleasure; drink with measure.
He who sees the calamity of other people finds his own calamity light.
A mother is like a kernel, crushed by problems but strong enough to overcome them.
What adds to knowledge, adds to pain.
Nothing ages more than a good deed.
The rose is a friend of the thorn.
A bird only flies as high as his wings take him.
Re-open not a wound once healed.
He who has a glass roof should not throw stones at his neighbour's.
The animal that is coming to be killed does not hear the hunter cough.
If you have a friend who is a physician, send him to your enemy's house.
In adversity is when friendship is proven.
What is sweet in a fools mouth will surely finish is money.
The best of men are but men at best.
Either fight not with priests or beat them to death.
The moon does not heed the baying of dogs.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying a grain in a bag with a hole in it.
When you reach the top, keep climbing.
By bread and salt we are united.
The contented are always happy; the discontented are ever miserable.
Fleeing and running are not the same thing.
What Christ does not take the exchequer takes.
He who has plenty of pepper may season his food as he likes.
One generation comes, another goes, the world remains.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
The vicious, notwithstanding the sweetness of their words, and the honey on their tongues, have a whole storehouse of poison in their hearts.
Trusting in wealth is like looking for feathers on turtles.
It is easier not to commit a sin than to repent it.
A person on whose head lice are being removed, must be grateful.
Rats do not play tricks with kittens.
You can't heal stubbornness.
Mutual gifts cement friendship.
A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine.
The back has to pay for what the ears didn't hear.
When a man has fallen into the mire, the more he flounders the more he fouls himself.
The countries you visit, the customs you find.
Amen, said the minister, he hit the old lady in the head with the New Testament.
The best advice is found on the pillow.
What makes the road long is laziness to go.
A man may say too much, even upon the best subjects.
If you want your children to have a peaceful life, let them suffer a little hunger and a little coldness.
If you ask for too much at once, you will come home with an empty bag.
Better master one than engage with ten.
Lay on more wood; ashes give money.
A cowboy never tries on another man's hat, its like gettin' on his hosse.
If you think the worst, you won't be far wrong.
We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through. Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love... and then we return home.
The sun loses nothing by shining into a puddle.
The sick man is vexed with the flies on the wall.
A thief believes everybody steals.
Happiness consists in the absence of anxiety.
He who travels with hope, has poverty for his coachman.
Do not wait until tomorrow to hunt.
If your head be without pain don't thrust it into trouble.
That sick man is not to be pitied who has his cure in his sleeve.
If you put a bone in the dog's mouth it doesn't bark.
Beauty is an empty calabash.
Plaster thick, some will stick.
All evils save death may be amended.
Ravens do not peck each other's eyes out.
You would do better to sit on a powder keg than on the knee of a woman.
Hasty work - shame for the craftsman.
If a fool has a lot of grease he will wipe it on his beard.
Abundance will make cotton pull a stone.
Birds sing not because they have answers but because they have songs.
If you must battle your enemy, hit him where it hurts him most.
Anger has no eyes.
Necessity teaches arts.
When the devil says his paternosters he means to cheat you.
The merciful do not engage in war, and the righteous do not engage in finances.
Thick body, weak soul.
One day a student asked Taiga, "What is the most difficult part of painting?" Taiga answered, "The part of the paper where nothing is painted is the most difficult."
If you want to avoid being cheated, ask for prices at three different stores.
When wood breaks it can be repaired, but ivory breaks forever.
Learn what you want and leave or others.
A girl receives, a widow takes her husband.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
One's own simple bread is much better than someone else's pilaf.
Old cats love young mice.
Talk of the devil - and the devil appears.
To serve a prince is like sleeping with a tiger.
When a wife sins the husband is never innocent.
The loss which your neighbour does not know is no real loss.
Say what we will, do what we will, the boat goes but sorrily without oars.
Put cream and sugar on a fly and it tastes very much like a black raspberry.
Concern is the beginning of wealth.
Trust in Allah, but tie your camel.
Water can float a boat or sink it.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
What would shame him would turn back a funeral.
Even though the old man is strong and hearty, he will not live forever.
Red sky at night is a shepherds delight, red sky in the morning is a shepherds warning.
Always exist branch grabbers, when exist fir-tree haulers.
Conquer what you desire.
Money grows on the tree of persistence.
Men learn oratory by practice.
Who has never done thinking never begins doing.
The end of passion is the beginning of repentance.
You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire.
The buried do not give birth.
A sooty chimney costs many a beef-steak.
The earth is a host who kills his guests.
Security is the first cause of misfortune.
A fellow can do anything if he lists.
He wont pick strawberries into the basket on somebody else.
Go in God's name–so you ride no witches.
'Tis death to us.
If you hear a lot of things, you will hear a lot of lies.
The hand which gives is better than the one which receives.
When the hunt is not successful, go find snails.
One scabby sheep infects the whole flock.
A plaster house, a horse at grass, a friend in words, are all mere glass.
Don't call the alligator "big-mouth" till you have crossed the river.
Choleric men are blind and mad.
Call your husband cuckold in jest, an he'll never suspect you.
A man conducts himself abroad as he has been taught at home.
Art has no enemy but ignorance.
There is not a pair of ears for every Jew.
The main road is an easy way, but everyone loves the side streets.
Even when a goat knows that it is being dragged to graze, it still resists.
Old age doesn't protect from folly.
Look for a thing until you find it and you'll not lose your labor.
To be like the esquire of Guadalaxara, who knew nothing in the morning of what he said at night.
Dearth foreseen never came.
When the cat's stomach is full, the rat's back is bitter.
When the angels present themselves, the devils abscond.
The more cowherds there are, the worse the cows are looked after.
None are more haughty than a common place person raised to power.
An advantage of poverty, your relatives gain nothing by your death.
Self-preservation is the first law of nature.
When the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox.
When it is in an unlucky phase, the vulture below, shits on the vulture above.
It is easy to get a thousand soldiers, but difficult to get one general.
What is bred in the bone won't out of the flesh.
When you lose the rhythm of the drumbeat of God, you are lost from the peace and rhythm of life.
The crow thinks best of her own chickens.
A good friend is someone who will bail you out of jail, but your best friend is the one sitting next to you saying "that was fucking awesome”.
What little Jack does not learn, big John will never.
The devil is cunning.
If you are kind to the cruel, you will be cruel to the kind.
Hot broth softens hard bread.
Do not abstain from sowing for fear of the pigeons.
When ashes cole darg sleep in dey.
If the people wanted life, destiny better respond.
You seek wool from a donkey!
Praise the sea but keep near land.
Comfortable is he who doesn't have a donkey - Doesn't know of its straw and barley.
Parents and children teach one another.
Indifference is a generous kind of intolerance.
It may be better to have honour than wealth.
The one who plants the tree is not the one who will enjoy its shade.
Clear accounts make for long friendships.
Who goes to the fair without money, goes with one problem and returns with three.
Do not carry rubbish out of your hut.
He who is always right will never get round the world.
Ye needna mak a causey tale o't.
The gun catridge-belt of akowua has never been known to lack bullets.
To speak French doesn't mean you are smart.
A good action reaps another.
Quick enough, if safe enough.
Kings have long hands.
Covet not the property of others.
Better hand loose than in an ill tethering.
A woman is like a bee treat her well and she will make honey, treat her badly and she will go wild.
Nine tailors make a man.
I have seen as light a green.
Those who pry into other people's affairs will hear what they do not like.
You can't please everyone.
When he arrived at the banks of the Rubicon, which divides Cisalpine Gaul from the rest of Italy ... he stopped to deliberate.... At last he cried out: "The die is cast" and immediately passed the river.
I kiss thee hide, because thou art to be a wine-bag.
Like Barnard, he tries to catch the heavens stone.
Even if you're rich, you cannot bury yourself.
True poverty does not come from God.
If you don't seal a crack, you will build wall.
If you cure a monkey of its tooth ache its your maize farm that suffers.
No one ever suddenly reached the height of vice.
It is a stupid dog that barks at an elephant.
The closer a relation, the more it hits home.
What I do not know will not keep me warm.
The devil loves no holy water.
Who seeks something will get that.
An ear dots not go to bed hungry.
The fish stinks from the head.
Who cares about every little feather should not make the bed.
He who associates with dogs learns to pant.
Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk.
Some people want to be praised for the rest of their lives for what they have done well for one day.
It is better to be a mouse in a cat's mouth than a man in a lawyer's hands.
Giving much to the poor doth enrich a man's store.
Nature, to be commanded, must be obeyed. (Francis Bacon)
A sauna makes a woman most beautiful one hour after the bath.
Good management and feed give eggs.
A man with a sense of humor is never at a loss for words or action.
There is no knowledge without experience.
The only trick the incapable has, are his tears.
Rome was not bigged on the first Day.
I got you, O! worshiper of the helper, to help me but you are in need of help.
A' are no thieves that dogs bark at.
If the young palm tree wants to stay alive, it grows next to the odum tree.
A man without a beard is like bread without a crust.
The hungarian justice is three.
Strive to be a person who is never absent from an important act.
Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face.
More haste, less speed.
Big words seldom accompany good deeds.
It is not the fire in the fireplace which warms the house, but the couple who get along well.
When the pain has passed one forgets the medicine.
Verbal fraud is worse than monetary fraud.
Control of mental conduct, not skill, is the sign of a matured samurai.
It is difficult to scare people who think they will profit from dying.
The coast is clear. (17th century)
Better blow hard than burn yourself.
An angry man is not fit to pray.
Let every one sweep before his own door.
The first step toward greatness is to be honest.
Who owns too much, remains unhappy.
A bitter heart devours its owner.
If an enemy is annoying you by playing well, consider adopting his strategy.
Without knowing a person we must not hate him.
The success of a man is through the soles of his feet, that of a woman is from her legs.
Him with a clean future has a clean past.
She is not a modest woman whom common report condemns.
Those who want to sing will always find a song.
Sleep on a bed of silver and dream of gold.
The Irish ignore anything they can't drink or punch.
When you chase a fellow man reserve the strength to switch you back when he recharges and turns.
Yesterday is ashes; tomorrow wood. Only today does the fire burn brightly.
Neither draw me without cause, nor return me without honour.
One is born, one dies; the land increases.
Tell God the truth, but give money to the judge.
My son's my son aye till he get a wife, my daughter's my daughter a' the days of her life.
He who hunts two hares does not catch the one and lets the other escape.
Respect yourself, and you will get it back.
He who comes with a story to you brings two away from you.
The beauty of the play is to do deeds and speak little.
He must stoop that has a low door.
"Botofe bo le iwa.” : Rubber is death (present day Congo proverb)
All is well: for if the bride has not fair hair, she has a fair skin.
To do good for ten years is not enough; do bad things for one day and it is too much.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.
After the storm comes the easiness.
It is the part of a good shepherd to shear his flock, not to skin it.
Late marriages, premature orphans.
The fish that can see that its water is getting shallower, cannot be stranded.
An ill turn is soon done.
An inch of time is an inch of gold, but an inch of time cannot be purchased for an inch of gold.
Better to keep quiet than to speak poorly (of someone).
He who lives according to nature will never be poor.
The peacock hath fair feathers, but a foul voice.
If you reach for something that is far too good for you, it is not going to end well.
Stupidity is too often beauty's imperfection.
Charity begins at home, but does not have to end there.
The wolf is always left out of the reckoning.
There are only two things from which to choose: profit or loss.
You can't catch a cub without going into the tiger's den.
Own hearth is gold worth.
The morning is wiser than the evening.
Other's ornaments tire one's neck.
He that lives long suffers much.
All things are easy to industry, all things difficult to sloth.
The yellow dog is brother to the wolf.
The pot telling the kettle it black.
You talk to a deaf man.
Do not take the thatch from your own roof to buy slates for another man's house.
Cowboys ride horses.
To a friend's house the road is never long.
God sits on high and he sees far.
Kindle not a fire you cannot put out.
He who foretells the future lies, even if he tells the truth.
Experience keeps a dear school.
When a once-beautiful piece of cloth has turned into rags, no one remembers that it was woven by Ukwa master weavers.
Because of a drop of blue dye,a whole pot of milk is contaminated.
Fat geese don't fly far.
If the bald knew a remedy he would rub it on his own head.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes, the horse thief not one.
Knowledge is like a lion; it cannot be gently embraced.
Every action has its repercussions.
With a full belly it is easy to talk about fasting.
The good words cost little.
It is but a small merit to observe silence, but it is a grave fault to speak of matters on which we should be silent.
There's no haste, when a Russian does not follow you.
Thou are a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.
Envy waits on boasting.
How lovely is the sun after rain, and how lovely is laughter after sorrow.
Pretend that you are crazy, you will live.
Dangerous enemies will meet again in narrow streets.
The mediator in a fight gets all the blows.
A full pig in the sty doesn't find the hungry one going by.
Cooked rice grains sticking to the soles of the feet.
If you live with wolves learn to howl.
Sorrow is like rice in the store; if a basketful is removed everyday, it will come to an end at last.
Black cows give white milk.
Every cock crows on his own dunghill.
Honey cloys.
Ignorance doesn't necessarily kill you but it makes you sweat a lot.
A guest hammers a nail in the wall even if he stays only one night.
If there is bitterness in the heart, sugar in the mouth won't make life sweeter.
He who will not serve one master must needs serve many.
I will not bite any dog,” says the shepherd's dog, "for I must save my teeth for the wolf.
What nectar can be drunk with the ears? Good advice.
God is on the side of the strongest battalions.
His courage oozed out at his fingers' ends.
Why buy a cow when milk is so cheap?
In the war of love who flies conquers.
Punishment awaits crime.
One who prevades the great universe is seen by none unless a man knows the unfolding of love.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue; to the end we should hear and see more than we speak.
You can't put "thank you” in your pocket.
When you drink from the stream remember the spring.
The jungle is stronger than the elephant.
It's only the ant that hears the whispers of the sand.
When a man says yes, his personal god says yes also.
The monk feasts and the convent pays.
The attack tames the beast.
Work paid for in advance has feet of lead.
When one sheep is over the dam, the rest follow.
It only looks that way.
Fate can't be avoided.
You are looking for wings in a wolf.
Who is narrow minded cannot be bighearted.
Trust everybody, but thyself most.
One fault does not warrant divorce of a wife.
Love is like a glass that breaks if handled clumsily.
Time, wine, women, and fortune, are ever changing.
Absence polishes passion, presence reinforces it.
It's the same to the sauna if the drying barn burns.
Agreement with two people, lamentation with three.
A person peeing right against a wall most certainly has an adam's apple.
It is easier to fill twenty bellies than one pair of eyes.
Whither goest thou, Misfortune? To where there is more.
Something impossible, something it will never happen.
A hoe made small from loving work came to visit and together we cultivated our relationship. When united everything is possible.
An ounce of mother is worth a pound of priests.
When a poor man gets lucky, nothing can contain him.
Treat yourself and each other with respect.
A great leap gives a great shake.
Don't put off today's work till tomorrow.
The klingon who kills without showing his face has no honor.
Rather the cruelty of the Turks than the justice of the Bedouins.
Only the mountains never meet.
An obstinate wife and a haughty husband.
I'm not going to lend you a stick to break my head with.
Only mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noonday sun.
He who plants a garden plants happiness.
A chicken with beautiful plumage does not sit in a corner.
Remove firewood from under a pot.
When the tree is down, everyone runs to it with a hatchet to cut wood.
Gifts is the key to the female heart.
A mother has little love for a son who did not give her pain.
When you see a turtle on top of a fence post, you know he had some help.
A good cowman knows how to lie to the tax collector and the cattle buyer.
Nothing dries sooner than a tear.
Close does not shoot any hares.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
Before you study Zen, a bowl is a bowl and tea is tea. While you are studying Zen, a bowl is no longer a bowl and tea is no longer tea. After you've studied Zen, a bowl is again a bowl and tea is tea.
Don't be foolish and awe struck, because foolishness is telling but cursing doesn't hit home.
Money makes the mare to go.
Every one thinks himself without sin because he has not those of others.
Give a servant a proper meal and the cow will give more milk and the cat will drink less.
The body is a sponge, the soul an abyss.
When an elephant is in trouble even a frog will kick him.
The wise man's promises are like dew on the field.
You made your bed, now lie in it.
He who hunts two hares leaves one and loses the other.
Michael, Michael, you have no bees, and yet you sell honey.
Train equally the mind and body.
One man's folly is another man's fortune.
Judge a Dutchman by what he means, not by what he says.
Sweep before your own door before you sweep before others.
Forty is the old age of youth; fifty is the youth of old age.
You will shed tears with one eye like a monkey.
For all one's early rising, it dawns none the sooner.
Ask for a science that would be useful to you, would keep you from harm and shame, then elevate you.
He who comes sooner shall mill/grind sooner.
If you give people nuts, you'll get shells thrown at you.
Love is often the fruit of marriage.
He is a fool who boasts of four things: that he has good wine, a good horse, a handsome wife, and plenty of money.
Three need to be guarded: a patient, a groom, and a bride.
From the sublime to the ridiculous is only one step.
It's better to fly and stay alive than to die a hero.
A fault that is denied once is committed twice.
We decide our affairs, then we rest them with God.
Lions believe that everyone shares their state of mind.
The most extensive land is the human belly.
Some many heads, so many brains.
He who knew you when you were young will not respect you when you grow up.
The tide will fetch away what the ebb brings.
Tell the truth and run.
A giant among the pigmies.
Give her bells and let her fly.
Never help a person who doesn't help anybody else.
If you don't recognize God, at least know him by his power.
If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain.
When the big bells ring, the little bells are not heard.
Don't cross a bridge until you come to it.
An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
If you want to eat freshly caught fish, you don't want to have a tight purse.
Not wrapping it in cloth.
Have the courage to admit your mistakes.
Children are a poor man's riches.
If you call a lady a slave, she laughs, but if you call a slave a slave, he cries.
The crow pecks at the ox to clean it -- not to feed from it.
Bricks and mortar make a house, but the laughter of children make a home.
Of two evils, it is always best to vote for the less hypocritical.
Seven axes lie together, two distaffs apart.
He who has both money and bread, may choose with whom his daughter to wed.
Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone.
One swallow does not make a summer.
A guest sees more in an hour than the host sees in a year.
If a greedy eater is near a patient, such a patient can never survive.
He who waits for something good never waits too long.
Coffee hot and the girl young.
The deaf does not listen, but invents well.
husband, don't believe what you see, but what I tell you.
The lazy servant to save one step takes eight.
Where there was fire, ashes remain.
The fist loss is the best.
It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg.
Not all the red-faced are drunkards nor all the yellow-faced sick.
One favours him from whom one has in the past received a gift.
One man's loss is another man's gain.
The more arguments you win, the less friends you will have.
Always assume your guest is tired, cold and hungry, and act accordingly.
He who looks demurely trust not with your money.
He does not put crosswise even one stalk of straw.
The law is good, if a man use it lawfully.
Don't buy a cat in a sack.
The big fish eat the little ones.
Nunziata, fix the salad, a little vinegar, lots of oil, four reckless mouthfuls, and then some drinks from the jug.
Where power reigns there is no room for reason.
The goat must browse where she is tied.
The taste of cold water after drinking, is a pleasure that the teetotaler will never know.
That which is said in your heart, let it be realized by springing up spontaneously.
The best way to learn to ride is on an old bike.
He declares himself guilty who justifies himself before accusation.
The costliest clock can show only sixty minutes in every hour.
The early morn favours study.
Living is worthless for one without a home.
Having conquered, tighten the thongs of your helmet.
Men may meet, but mountains never greet.
A shady lane breeds mud.
The less people think the more they talk.
In my homeland I possess one hundred horses, yet if I go, I go on foot.
A man does not look behind the door unless he has stood there himself.
Young people tell what they are doing, old people what they have done, and fools what they wish to do.
Whenever there is excess, an axe remedies it!
The longest road has an end and the straightest road has an end.
Where all adulterers to wear grey coats, the cloth would be dear.
A shut mouth catches no flies.
Poverty parts good company, and is an enemy to vertue.
Truth that is poorly timed is as bad as a lie.
Who gets lost in the forest takes it out on who leads him back.
Take a close look then at today.
A bad wound heals, but a bad word doesn't.
One can easily judge the character of a person by the way they treat people who can do nothing for them.
Send a man of sense on the embassy, and you need not instruct him.
A bee does not touch a withered flower.
Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter.
One may see through a wall, if there's a hole in it.
The past is for God, the future for the Tsars.
Silent men like still waters, are deep and dangerous.
An oven and mill are nurseries of news.
It costs you your good spirit to steal than buying or seeking.
A drop of water breaks a stone.
If you are going to steal bells plug your ears.
When the poor man's buffalo calves every one runs with his pail (for milk).
The more you listen the more you give yourself room for doubt.
A small shrub may grow into a tree.
It takes all sorts to make a world.
Drunkenness and anger, 'tis said tell the truth.
Nature teaches us to love our friends, but religion our enemies.
Calm weather in June, sets the corn in tune.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
A face that never laughs betrays an evil heart.
Hands wash each other.
The highest seat will not hold more than one.
You can build a house but you must make a home.
My life and soul, but not my pack-saddle.
An old fool is worse than a young simpleton.
Death and marriages make changes.
Children grow up, with or without parents.
We have far greater compassion for another's misfortune than our pleasure in another's good fortune.
Being young is a fault which improves daily.
Sparrows, though they live to be a hundred, do not forget their dance.
It is better to pay and have a little left than to have much and be always in debt.
Someone who is pointing his finger to another person is not always aware that the four remaining fingers are pointing in his direction.
The secret of an old woman scolding.
You have to come into the world in order to enjoy the world.
People die voluntarily when it becomes impossible to live.
There's a crocodile in every big river.
Everyone cut the grass. Cut the grass. Let no one call the others 'Prisoners'.
Consider each day of your life to be the best.
All things hath a beginning, God excepted.
Every question has an answer.
The strength of the heart comes from the soundness of the faith.
It is always the fat ones who lead the dance.
A fool's name is seen in many places.
Dare to be true; nothing can need a lie.
Choose neither a woman nor linen by candlelight.
If wisdom is measured by the size of the beard then the goat is a philosopher king.
The steed does not retain its speed forever.
It is better to eat bread with love than fowl with grief.
A fast is better than a bad meal.
The day before yesterday and yesterday are not the same as today.
There is no bad weather only bad clothing.
Where the river makes a sound, you can be sure it's carrying water.
Grain and graciousness grow on good ground.
A filthy mouth will not utter decent language.
Any water will put out fire.
Everyone has their own way of killing fleas.
He owed the devil a journey.
My debtor is a worse payer even than I am.
He who looks on has two-thirds of the game.
Doctors purge the body, ministers the conscience, lawyers the purse.
Sow early and mow early.
You can't use your hand to force the sun to set.
With the skin of the dog its bite is cured.
If one imitates the upright, one becomes upright; if one imitates the crooked, one becomes crooked.
An open mind only hurts those who fear their own mistakes.
Eat beans for lunch and have no friends at the dinner table.
Many a good face is under a ragged hat.
You have a lot of friends if you have money; otherwise there are only strangers.
It is unclear who has money and who faith.
A good armchair makes the backside soft and the heart hard.
Don't let children or pups get accustomed to your soup bowl.
Ask ten brewers and you will get eleven opinions.
If you were in a place you take care of it has if it where yours.
Before you plan to improve the world, look around your own house three times.
Fretting cares make grey hairs. (Strauss, 1994.
Everything what's not stolen will be found.
It is not the cowl that makes the friar.
Set a peasant on horseback, and he forgets both God and man.
I have anointed you with kohl, do you, in return, anoint me with pepper?.
It is a beggar's pride that he is not a thief.
Love makes all hearts gentle.
Don't cross the water unless you see the bottom.
Don't bargain for fish which are still in the water.
Unearned riches have no goods.
He who listened to the woman suffered famine at harvest time.
A horse has four legs, yet it often falls.
Man's mind changes throughout the course of a day.
A mother and daughter fought, and fool thought they meant it.
Wait three years for promised.
Give a man luck and cast him into the sea.
May both seller and buyer see the benefit.
Happy is he who knows his follies in his youth.
They throw stones at a tree with fruit.
Visit infrequently, and you will get closer.
None but the wise man can employ leisure well.
God is an honest payer, but a very slow one.
I protect myself from my enemies; may God protect me from my friends.
Darkness conceals the hippopotamus.
You can't be a howling success by simply howling.
A shy beggar has an empty scrip.
Where art is displayed truth does not appear.
When the leg does not walk, the stomach does not eat.
To be sure that your friend is a friend, you must go with him on a journey, travel with him day and night, go with him near and far.
A good life, they say, keeps wrinkles at bay.
Singing "Alelulia"everywwhere does not prove piety.
Constant dropping wears the stone.
Whose interest was it? To whose prejudice was it?
One hair from the head of a woman pulls more than a ship's hauser.
Не that has an ill name is half hanged.
Here's health to your enemies' enemies!
Your soul to God, your body to dust, your property to your relatives, because thus it has been found written.
When a man dies his feet get bigger.
If crocodiles eat their own eggs, what would they do to the flesh of a frog?
An ox remains an ox, even if driven to Vienna.
Who loses honor won't ever find it.
Who builds upon the people, builds upon sand.
Better go than send.
An envious man waxes lean with the fatness of his neighbour.
Those who do not forgive break the bridge on which they have to pass.
Words have no wings but they can fly many thousands of miles.
In the boss's eyes you'll always see ambition.
There's no iron so hard that rust won't fret it; and there's no cloth so fine that moths won't eat it.
The sayings of the wise are like the sharp sticks that shepherds use to guide sheep.
That fear may reach all, punish but few.
After high floods come low ebbs.
No rest for the wicked.
Burnt child fears the fire.
He who doesn't risk never gets to drink champagne.
If you have a bulldozer, you don't need a snow shovel.
If you stop every time a dog barks, your road will never end.
Too many cooks spoil the brew.
At last the foxes all meet at the furrier's.
God hath leaden feet, but iron hands.
Learn weeping and thou shalt gain laughing.
Poverty won't allow him to lift up his head; dignity won't allow him to bow it down.
In at one ear and out at the other. (14th century)
The goat does not get fat just by whispering.
An axe with rio handle does not split firewood.
If you share a man's wealth, try to lessen his misfortune.
When good cheer is lacking, our friends will be packing.
He who serves two masters has to lie to one.
It is the great north wind that made the Vikings.
Fear hath a quick ear.
For people who love even water is sweet.
As fast as laws are devised, their evasion is contrived.
To him that hath much, shall much be given.
The rain that is going to fall doesn't wet you.
If you have one finger pointing at somebody, you have three pointing towards yourself.
Colts by falling, and lads by losing, grow prudent.
A single log of wood does not burn even in an oven.
Everyone loves the tree that gives him shelter.
There are two things a person should never be angry at, what they can help, and what they cannot.
Men see only the present; heaven sees the future.
It takes a good many mice to kill a cat.
Wash your hands often, your feet seldom, and your head never.
The generous and bold have the best lives.
Mouth and heart are wide apart.
Never consult a doctor who has never been ill himself.
Before the nut is cooked, a sesame is burnt.
When you go to fetch water and do not return, they do not inquire about the pot.
Who takes an eel by the tail and a woman at her word, may say he holds nothing.
Blessed is the misfortune that comes alone.
All men grieve, and if you ask them the reason why, they cannot tell it.
An unbidden guest knows not where to sit.
Always have sex with the boss.
One knife keeps another in its sheath.
One man's breath another's death.
Understanding is something we're sure the other fellow hasn't got.
It is better to die in revenge than to live on in shame.
You can go home when you can go nowhere else.
Jack of all trades is master of none.
God gives us nuts but he does not crack them for us.
He who serves the people has a bad master.
No man can serve two masters.
If there's no choice but advice, ask for the decisiveness of an advisor or the advice of a decisive person.
Gently, not by force.
What reveals itself to me ceases to be mysterious for me alone if I unveil it to anyone else, he hears mere words which betray the living sense Profanation, but never revelation.
Your wife and your wheelbarrow -- lend them to no one.
An ounce of favor goes farther than a pound of justice.
Where you smart there I will hit you.
At the bottom of the sack you will find the bill.
A swift eater, a swift worker.
Seeing is better than hearing.
By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree.
Grace will last, beauty will blast.
He gives from caliph's bag.
I send thee myrrh, not that thou mayest be by it perfumed, but it perfumed by thee.
Bite me not, my name is little grizzle; had I a little tail I should be a little lion.
Keep away from trouble and sing to it.
Nothing is blacker than the pan.
Even God cannot satisfy everyone.
The water can only flow thanks to the well.
Calul bun se vinde în grajd.(The good horse is sold even in stable)
No meat ever remains in the shambles however bad it may be.
Words of the mouth are like a stone in a sling.
When you are eating with the devil, you must use a long spoon.
When a blind man is happy he gives money to his child to buy kerosene for his lamp.
Many who build castles in the air cannot build a hut on earth.
A noble prince or king never has a coin to bless himself.
Where friars abound keep your eyes open.
The voice of the forest kujanun bird is the glory of the tamarisks.
Secrecy is the beginning of tyranny.
If a baby crawls up to me and pinches me, I will get on my knees and pinch him back.
Poor is the church without music.
Being on sea, sail; being on land, settle.
The best feed of a horse is his master's eye.
That happens in a moment which may not happen in a hundred years.
He who scrubs the head of an ass wastes his soap.
An innocent heart suspects no guile.
The knowledge of a trade is worth a handful of gold.
Laugh and everyone sees it, cry and no one sees it.
As old people sing, young people tweet.
Seek education even if it takes you to China.
Send a child to do your errands, go do them yourself afterwards.
One can't give a grasshopper to a child if one has not caught it yet.
Dirty clothes are washed in the backyard.
Wisdom is what makes a poor man a king, a weak person powerful, a good generation of a bad one, a foolish man reasonable.
Whoever pursues fame and greatness, they flee from him; whoever shuns greatness, it comes after him.
A beard is a symbol of courage.
A young doctor means a new graveyard.
Who has wine for dinner, he has water for breakfast.
A bad man talks about what he has eaten and drunk -- a good man about what he has seen and heard.
Who strikes his father or mother his hand will grow out of the grave.
The horse should worry, he has a big head.
Speak and the man shall be shown.
A tree near the road is easily cut down.
One who eats plain food is healthy.
The higher the bell is hung, the shriller it sounds.
If it were not for the hands, the clock would be useless.
Don't spur a willing horse.
Prepare yourself for when the water comes up to your knees.
Let not thy right hand know what thy left hand doeth.
A patient man will eat ripe fruits.
Laugh till you cry, sorrow till you die.
Watch your character; it becomes your destiny.
A little dog, a cow without horns, and a short man, are generally proud.
Daylight will come, though the cock do not crow.
A joyous evening often leads to a sorrowful morning.
It is easy to be wise after the event.
A fu' sack will tak a clout o' the side.
It's not the gale but the set of the sail that determines the way you go.
In times of trouble, leniency becomes crime.
At the end of the game we see who wins.
Like the man who shields himself with a spiders home.
An handful of trade is an handful of gold.
What may be done at any time will be done at no time.
Teach thy tongue to say, "I do not know."
When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it.
Half-truth is more dangerous than falsehood.
When you have no choice, mobilize the spirit of courage.
The hen knows that dawn has arrived but it leaves the duty of crowing to the cock.
The eleventh commandment: Thou shalt not contradict.
He that sows thistles shall reap prickles.
Make the cap fit the head.
A crown is no cure for the headache.
The witch is going! the witch is going! but if you are not a witch you don't turn around to look.
Where two women rule a hearth-fire, the thatch may burn with the sparks flying.
When the apple is ripe it will fall.
You do not stumble over a mountain, but you do over a stone.
Tales came like out of the barrel of a machine gun.
Don't pay a single gold coin for the sorrell, but when he's good, be ready to spend a fortune.
Deeds are fruits, words are only leaves.
The time for pressing is while the iron is hot.
You are only young once, but you can stay immature indefinitely.
The smaller the company the bigger the share.
Ebery day a fishing-day, but no ebery day fe ketch fish.
Wonder at your auld shoon when ye hae gotten your new.
Sweep the dirt from in front of your own door, and don't worry about your neighbour's.
Do as you would be done by.
A bad excuse is better than none.
A great talker is a great liar.
One likes the priest, someone else his wife, I prefer his daughter.
A mare who has had a foal will never again drink pure water.
The sun won't stay behind the cloud.
Though you are a prudent old man, do not despise counsel.
Ane Begger is wae, another by the gate gae.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
It is vain to fish without a hook, or learn to read without a book.
Do not spit in the well - you may be thirsty by and by.
Time will give you the best disguise.
Spare when ye're young, and spend when ye're auld.
Long whiskers cannot take the place of brains.
It is when one holds the sacrificial lamb that he begins to seek the gods.
Better an apple pie than apple blossom.
The wages of sin is death.
Dogs that fight each other will join forces against the wolf.
Fidlers, dogs and flies, come to the feast uncalled.
There is no fool than an old fool.
He that asketh a courtesy promiseth a kindness.
The pain of the little finger is felt by the whole body.
A man of high principles is someone who can watch a chess game without passing comment.
Earnings far away get spent along the way.
When luck joins in the game, cleverness scores double.
Too much alms, the saint will be suspicious.
Better to be without a book than to believe a book entirely.
He that hears much, hears many lies.
If you would live healthy, be old early.
An unsolicited guest is worse than a tatar.
Flies don't light on a boiling pot.
If there are no nightingales one must settle for owls.
All criminals turn preachers under the gallows.
When a man cheats on you once, shame on him, when he cheats on you twice, shame on you.
Idle brains are the devil's workshop.
Perseverance kills the game.
Some sing who are not merry.
A ship and a woman are ever repairing.
Silence is the soul of all things.
Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe. Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for its living, And a child that's born of the Sabbath day Is fair and wise and good and gay.
Water and words are easy to pour but impossible to recover.
Wisdom is the least burdensome travelling pack.
Heaven lent you a soul Earth will lend a grave.
He wastes his tears who weeps before the judge.
To be successful in love, one must know how to begin and when to stop.
All the keys in the land do not hang from one girdle.
Eat and drink with your relatives, but do business with strangers.
A good man does not take what belongs to someone else.
The hand of the child cannot reach the shelf, nor the hand of the adult get through the neck of the gourd.
Oh hyena, you cannot drag away hides without making a sound.
Of two evils choose the less.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets along the way.
Even though he misses his duck, he will not miss his lake.
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreaseth.
There never was an old slipper but there was an old stocking to match it.
When God pleases, it rains in fair weather.
If you want to experience the pains of hell, spend winter in Messina and summer in Palermo.
Any fool carries an umbrella on a wet day, but the wise man carries it every day.
A child is an axe; when it cuts you, you still pick it up and put it on your shoulder.
A woman is never old when it comes to the dance she knows.
If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips.
Some have the fame, and other card the wool.
The master's eye and foot are the best manure for the field.
The human heart is neither of stone nor wood.
We are the ones we have been waiting for.
The horse's best allowance is his master's eye.
If the young only knew; if the old only could.
A single bad experience is worth a thousand threats.
When one hand is injured the other nurses it, when both hands are injured they nurse each other.
A good breakfast cannot take the place of the evening meal.
Hope does not kill; I shall live in hope of getting what I seek another day.
An inch in a sword, or a palm in a lance, is a great advantage.
Love is the fruit of idleness.
Do not set the mill on fire in order to burn the mice.
With customs we live well, but laws undo us.
You have to make the most of the chances that come your way. You have to strike while the iron is hot.
If you're filled with pride then you will not have room for wisdom.
Every Flower must grow through Dirt.
Ants die in sugar.
She is good and honoured who is dead and buried.
At the bottom of patience is heaven.
A juicy bone is useless to a dog with no teeth.
Dem give yu basket fi carry water.
A camel cannot see the crookedness of its neck.
You must shift your sail with the wind.
I would I had as meikle pepper as he counts himself worthy Mice dirt.
Do not rely on the label of the bag.
Old age is in itself a disease.
From dissension, the light is born.
Who would make money must begin by spending it.
Great men may jest with saints.
A padded jacket is an acceptable gift even in summer.
The falcon does not struggle when he is caught.
Worries go down better with soup.
When in doubt, find out.
Let the salad-maker be a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a statesman for salt, and a madman for tossing.
One misfortune comes on the neck of another.
Make peace with people; wage war with your sins.
He is a good dog who goes to church.
You teach the dolphin to swim.
Every man has his cross to bear.
Choose old wine and new oil.
Blood will not turn water.
It takes a whole village to educate a child.
The world's quiet and the pig is in the sty.
As the person who has health is young, so the person who owes nothing is rich.
Love is an eye that doesn't see anything.
I pointed out to you the stars and all you saw was the tip of my finger.
Draw the bow but don't shoot -- it is a bigger threat to be intimidated than to be hit.
If the sky were to fall we should catch plenty of larks.
Be the thing you would be called.
A white dog does not bite another white dog.
The more laws the less justice.
If you make a habit of buying things you do not need, you will soon be selling things you do.
A dead man does not know where his grave is.
Know your enemies... But do business with them always.
Treat them mean, keep them keen.
Before you married keep you' two eye open; after you married, shut one.
Like blood, like good, and like age, make the happiest marriage.
One grain of sand can tip the scale.
One is better off seated than standing.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
He who spits above himself will have it fall on his face.
Nae man can baith sup an' blaw thegither.
Jesus Christ was crucified by public opinion.
When the pupil is ready to learn, a teacher will appear.
You have to believe in Gods to see them.
Hail, fellow, well met.
A good person has many friends, a good horse has many masters.
The first wife is a broom, and the second a lady.
Avoid a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak.
It is easy to sit at the helm in fine weather.
Christmas comes, but once a year is enough.
You can make the dream bigger than the night.
He expects that larks will fall ready roasted into his mouth.
The flame is not far from the smoke.
No good lawyer ever goes to court himself.
Stroke the horse until it is saddled.
Don't dig a hole for someone else, as you will fall into it yourself.
Bad grass does not die easily.
When you're out of luck in the coffin making business, no one dies.
He that touches pitch shall be defiled.
When a child is asleep a mother's attention is on the child's stomach.
To laugh at a man with sense is the privilege of fools.
A good name is better than oil.
Beware of false friends with wagging tongues.
There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
Without a general an army is lost.
Poverty is an older daughter of laziness.
A camel does not joke about the hump of another camel.
He that would keep his eye sound must tie up his hand.
Keep the tongue in your mouth a prisoner.
In youth we need to save for what old age will bring.
Hear one man before you answer; hear several before you decide.
When you remove the pack-saddle the sores become visible.
The child of lion is a lion.
The scholar may war the master.
A spender gets the property of the hoarder.
He who is late may gnaw the bones.
Hurry, hurry has no blessings.
The more you stir a turd, the more it stinks.
Walk straight, my son – as the old crab said to the young crab.
When two quarrel, both are to blame.
In default of bread, meal cakes are good.
If the horse is already dead more hay will not help it.
Whoever hates a reprimand is stupid.
A fruit tree that grows in a dung heap will certainly blossom.
That dog yelps, which stick hits.
If the rich man is fawning over the poor man, you can be certain that he needs something.
Don't sell the bear's skin before you have caught him.
With the first glass a man drinks wine, with the second glass the wine drinks the wine, with the third glass the wine drinks the man.
Patience is the mother of a beautiful child.
Don't worry if you borrow, but worry if you lend.
The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat.
An old woman dancing makes a great dust.
The Lord gives biscuits to he who has teeth.
Defeat is not failure but trail is total failure.
Whoever tells the truth is chased out of nine villages.
If a stone falls on an egg, it is bad for the egg; if an egg falls on a stone, it is still bad for the egg.
Enjoy yourself - it's later than you think.
One lives through the day, one never steps beyond the day.
Touch wood. (20th century)
In the world there is more madness than sanity.
He who gives a monkey as a present doesn't keep hold of its tail.
She who is born a beauty is born betrothed.
He who boasts of his accomplishments will heap ridicule.
Suspicion bears dark devils.
Good wine needs no crier.
To live with wolves, you have to howl like a wolf.
Passion is of greater consequence than facts.
The man who marries my mother, I call him uncle.
No folly like being in love.
When the healthy dog fights with a mad dog, it is the ears of the healthy one that are bitten off.
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'pworth of tar.
I will either win the saddle or lose the horse.
When he looked under the saddle he lost his horse.
Never do anything that you want to remain a secret.
Of a small spark, a great fire.
Two dogs over one bone seldom agree.
It is a long road that has no turning.
Let them all go to Jericho,
Hell is paved with good intentions.
Wherever something stands, another thing stands beside it.
A spring egg is dear at the Easter day.
Life is precious, as the tailor said when running from the gander.
One who handles honey, licks his fingers.
Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse.
Stupidity won't kill you, but it can make you sweat.
As long as the clouds dolt weep, the pasture cannot laugh.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, bad luck you'll have all day.
No ear is so deaf as one which wishes not to hear.
Real power is in the heart.
This caravan is lame until doomsday.
The absent were never in the right.
An empty sack won't stand alone.
Talk doesn't fill the stomach.
Times keep changing.
Better than a banquet somewhere else is a good cup of tea and a bowl of rice at home.
Prepare your proof before you argue.
Everything in its season, and turnips in Advent.
Thought is free.
A good horse has many faults; a bad one has hardly any.
A guine- fowl not lay eggs on strange places.
They must hunger in frost that will not work in heat.
What plant, that will harvest.
Fedot, yet not the one.
Wolves don't eat wolves.
When the blind leads the way, woe to those who follow.
Every bad person deserves a bad problem.
He that is drunk is gone from home.
If you borrow some chaff from the rich man you have to repay him with wheat.
Sometimes you need to sacrifice your beard in order to save your head.
The passions are like fire and water: good servants but bad masters.
For whom does the blind man's wife paint herself?
To every high mountain, there is a higher one.
What value is a needle without an eye?
He that will cheat at play, will cheat you any way.
Don't bark if you can't bite.
One cannot serve two masters.
A stirring foot always gets something, even if it's only a thorn.
The buyer has need of a hundred eyes. the seller but one.
A bird is distinguished by its note.
People always sing the tune that pleases their benefactor.
Hoordom and grace, can never bide in one place.
The voluntary obedience of people depends on who is commanding them.
He combines the pleasant with the useful.
No one is happier than he who believes in his happiness.
When the cart breaks down, advice abounds.
The place of an unbidden guest is behind the door.
Hurry slowly.
He that pries into the clouds may be struck with a thunderbolt.
If you want your eggs hatched, sit on them yourself.
The pride of women and the pride of priests.
The wise man and the tortoise travel but never leave their home.
A waiting appetite kindles many a spite.
Sickly women live longer.
Two blacks do not make a white.
Laughter is the shortest distance between two people.
If water were enough, fish would not take bait.
Better play at small game than stand out.
You catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
Blessed is the house that has a son who is a cleric.
A coconut shell full of water is a sea to an ant.
The hot sun melts away the snow; when anger comes, does wisdom go.
Rather the egg to-day than the hen to-morrow.
A hand doesn't wash alone.
Let the buyer be on his guard.
The sea embraces streams.
The cooking pot on the fire leaks, when pouring water it is broken.
Men would not be richer for being miserly; generosity does not make a man poorer.
The fox knows much, but more he that catcheth him.
Stay a while, and lose a mile.
An idle person may have just three tasks: sleeping, eating and quarrelling.
The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong.
Only when the tree is big and strong can you tether a cow to it.
One nail drives in another.
Learning is a treasure which accompanies its owner everywhere.
Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out.
Trust not the praise of a friend nor the contempt of an enemy.
There is plenty of corn in Castile, but he who has none, starves.
A halo only needs to drop a few inches to become a noose.
He is not happy who knows it not.
There are many people who can sing, but don't know the words.
He who sleeps forgets his hunger.
The doctor must heal his own bald head.
Revenge is a confession of pain.
Set good against evil.
It is sometimes best to burn your bridges behind you.
You cannot judge a tree by its bark.
He that will bare-foot go must not plant a garden of thistle.
Better the grave than a slave.
One man's happiness is another man's sadness.
Better to deny at once, than to promise long.
No pains, no gains.
In this world I greet my oldest survivor - the earth.
Better lie than gossip.
Where the Pope is there is Rome.
If it walks like a duck, quacks like a duck, looks like a duck, it must be a duck.
A wily person does not walk on dry leaves.
When the ripened ears are full and fall over, as if in sleep, the farmer awakens, that is to say, he begins the harvest.
Big trees cast more shadow than fruit.
Beware of the man to whom you have done a good turn.
The ones that matter the most are the children.
Crooked load will not get to the destination.
Money is flat and meant to be piled up.
Be careful not to make a woman weep.
Time shall teach thee all things.
Friends are lost by calling often and calling seldom.
There is no other purgatory but a woman. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
If a dog bites you and you don't bite him back, it will say that you have no teeth.
A race horse gives you an advantage and wins the prize.
Fear the goat from the front, the horse from the rear, and a man from all sides.
Ill gotten gains are like snow that is sprinkled with hot water.
One fisherman recognizes another from afar.
Yield to divine power.
Summer rain makes beautiful.
The wolf bemoans the sheep, and then eats it.
There is honor even among thieves.
Home is where he hangs his hat.
Debt is beautiful only after it is repaid.
Women are like wasps in their anger.
Plant the crab-tree where you will it will never bear pippins.
All things are difficult before they are easy.
Take nothing in hand that may bring repentance.
Character is what we are; reputation is what others think we are.
A man devoid of religion is like a horse without a bridle.
You cannot take hawks without climbing some cliffs.
To-morrow is the pupil of to-day.
Who is made to slave should do it with pleasure.
Slow and steady wins the race.
The same fire purifies gold and consumes straw.
If one sheep leaps over the ditch, all the rest will follow.
A full belly dances better than a fine coat.
God gives food to every bird, but does not throw it into the nest.
Don't trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
When the lion is dead the hares jump upon his carcase.
Health? Very nice! But where will we get potatoes?
The opera ain't over until the fat lady sings.
A staigh air an dala cluais 's amach air a' chluais eile (.
Shared joy is a double joy; shared sorrow is half a sorrow.
What three know will soon be known to thirty.
If you wish to be well served, serve yourself.
There is no room for two dragons in one pond.
It is easy to govern a kingdom but difficult to rule one's family.
He who knows not when he has enough, is poor.
Different strokes for different folks.
By desiring what belongs to others, you lose your own.
when a man say him no mind, den he mind.
A meagre compromise is better than a fat lawsuit.
Women love simple things, like men.
Better bow nor break.
The poor looks for food and the rich man for appetite.
You cannot compare the living with the dead.
Going to be a cold day in hell.
Anything with a beginning also has an end.
Better lose the wool than the sheep.
Women have got long hair and short sense.
There's no quiet child nor young grandmother.
A bold attempt is half success.
If thy heart fail thee, why then climb at all?
Fishing without a net is just bathing.
Even a fool is thought wise if he keeps silent, and discerning if he holds his tongue.
A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step.
Lawyers' houses are built on the heads of fools.
If youthful pride were wealth, then every man would have had it in his lifetime.
A child must creep until it learns to walk.
Five fingers are brothers but are not equals.
Milk and honey have different colours, but they share the same house peacefully.
The cat may look like a lion, but that does not make it a lion.
Laziness is the devil's pillow.
Even if a chef cooks just a fly, he would keep the breast for himself.
Even the smallest drop is appreciated by the drunkard.
Where the skin of the lion does not suffice, we must join that of the fox.
After dinner sit awhile; after supper walk a mile.
Give orders, and do no more, and nothing will be done.
If you see what the ducks eat then you eat no more duck.
A piece of meat with eyes.
Until the snake is dead, do not drop the stick.
Honey is not for asses.
There is na man so deaf as he that will not hear.
The less one thinks, the more one speaks.
While young, it's all dreams; when old, all memories.
Least said sooner mended.
Write injuries in dust, But kindnesses in marble.
In the kingdom of the blind men, those who are blessed with one eye are kings.
Every cock scratches around in his own garden.
From the same flower the bee extracts honey and the wasp gall.
A surgeon should be young a physician old.
Every one stretcheth his legs according to his coverlet.
Don't be a thief and won't fear the king.
Cheerfulness is the very flower of health.
You must judge a woman by the taste of her soup.
The stone fell on the pitcher? Woe to the pitcher. The pitcher fell on the stone? Woe to the pitcher.
Help is always welcome, except at the table.
Money makes the pot boil.
The green burns for the dry, and the righteous pay for sinners.
Money talks - everything else walks.
Venture all; see what fate brings.
The night brings counsel.
Poetry moves heaven and earth.
A silent woman is a good woman.
The real unlucky one will sprain his thumb when he blows his nose.
Evil to him who evil does.
It is not economical to go to bed early to save the candles if the result is twins.
He who takes revenge for a small insult, will have a bigger one thrown at him.
One half of the world does not know how the other half lives.
Do not eat your chicken and throw its feathers in the front yard.
Laws were made for rogues.
Who wishes to travel far spares his steed.
Better is a leap over the ditch than the entreaties of good men.
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is lost.
If an arrow goes into a forest it is not lost.
Only the sufferers know how their bellies ache.
There is no benefit that sticks to the fingers.
Hasty work doesn't succeed.
Few words to the wise suffice.
Dying men speak true.
Deer-hunter, waste not your arrow on the hare.
When toads wrestle, the flies dance.
A wall between increases love.
The very time I thought I was lost, my dungeon shook and my chains fell off.
Fools ask what's o'clock, but wise men know their time.
A whistling priest has a demon in his belly.
Fear is a fine spur; so is rage.
When a needle sees a dagger, she cries "O sister!”.
Judge not, lest ye be judged.
Every eye forms its own fancy.
On an uphill road, give your horse his reins.
The one who burns his mouth for drinking milk too hot, eats even yogurt carefully.
Don't let anyone know about your silent [secret] money.
Feed a dog for three days and it is gratefull for three years. Feed a cat for three years and it forgets after three days.
A father without sons is like a bow without arrows.
Do not lose honour through fear.
Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief.
Govern yourself and you can govern the world.
It is good to make a bridge of gold to a flying enemy.
Don't have too many irons in the fire. (16th century) (Citatboken)
There are more threatened than struck.
Salt split is never all gathered.
Haste is the invention of the devil.
A tree does not grow from the sky.
From sudden desire of halim he fell in the pot.
Did the old salt make you thirsty already?
A heavy heart seldom combs a gray beard.
Let the crab take counsel with its leg.
He has much to do who would please everybody.
Closeness without conflict only exists in the cemetery.
Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely.
It is a bad hen can't scrape for herself.
Wait until the tree has fallen before you jump over it.
If you would know the value of a ducat, try to borrow one.
He who trusts is happy; the doubter is wise.
He who desires all, misses all.
Only a fool asks, "What do you want with my wife?”.
The tiger that prowls quietly doesn't mean it's intimidated.
He who finds fault wants to buy.
He howls with the wolves, and bleats with the sheep.
Scholars are invaluable to a nation as the best course to a banquet.
The hare always returns to her form.
A blushing lie is better than the pale truth.
When the sea turned to honey, the poor man lost his spoon.
By their marks the bales are known.
Me no call you no come.
Never talk about a rope in the house of a man who has just been hanged.
Sing before breakfast, cry before night.
Nobody grumbles at being rich, all at being poor.
May your life be like a wildflower, growing freely in the beauty and joy of each day.
Everybody wants to be somebody; nobody wants to grow.
Keep to the little ones, and the big ones will not bite you.
The dog that has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow.
It is good to warm oneself by another's fire.
The obstacle is the path.
The best way to get someone to stop digging his heels in is to dig out the sand around him.
He who gets up in anger, sits down with a loss.
We won the war, but lost peace.
He who burnt himself with soup blows also in the sour milk.
Many a thing whispered into one ear is heard over the whole town.
Something well cared for lasts two centuries.
Only stretch you foot to the length of your blanket.
Once you lost the trust of someone, it is almost impossible to gain it back.
An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.
When gold speaks, everything else is silent.
A good maxim is never out of season.
No armor is proof against the gallows.
When in doubt, don't.
Being careful is not being a coward.
Using the old man's cane to hit his own back.
It is sad when the elephant dies, but the whole tribe can feed on it.
When the gorse is out of bloom, kissing's out of fashion.
Strength does not correspond with courage.
Rich people eat gold and shit lead.
In hospitality, the chief thing is the good will.
Sailors have a port in every storm.
All ships leak: some amidships, some in the bows, some in the hold.
You might as well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb.
A woman without love is like a rose without a scent.
Bashfulness will not avail a beggar.
Like pot, like cover.
The world likes to have night-owls, that it may have matter for wonder.
Don't take a golden sword to cut a radish.
A girl without a friend is like the spring without roses.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
A good man in an evil society seems the greatest villain of all.
Jails are always closed yet full, while temples are always open yet empty.
The beginning of health is to know the disease.
Every one wishes to bring water to his own mill, and leave his neighbour's dry.
The laggard cow gets the sour grass.
When with dwarfs, do not talk about pygmies.
One is in a dilemma to choose between two conditions by weighing the merits and demerits.
Watch out for a bad woman and never trust a good one.
It is easier to guard a sack full of fleas than a girl in love.
Never want while your neighbor has it.
Don't eat your bread on someone Else's table.
A fish and bird may fall in love but the two cannot build a home together.
Don't let your tongue cut your throat.
[You could] even chop sticks on (his) head.
Never call a Kerry man a fool until you're sure he's not a rogue.
To make an error is human; pushing the same error is dumb.
If you really love something, your fate is in its hands.
Hard upon hard never made a good wall.
When they came to milk the cow she said "I am an ox", and when they came to harness her she said "I am a cow".
Charity is not a bone you throw to your dog but a bone you share with your dog.
Fifty lemons are a load for one person, but for fifty persons they are perfume.
Dress up a stick and it'll be a beautiful bride.
God created women and women created the hearth.
If you fail to take away a strong man's sword when he is on the ground, will you do it when he gets up?
The owl is mourning, rain is coming.
Take care of your geese when the fox preaches.
A guest, like a fish, stinks the third day.
It is as meet as a thief for the widdie.
That person is welcome who brings presents.
Every son of Adam keeps hoping until he is carried away to his grave.
The truth is lost when there is too much debating.
Don't insult the dead.
The most lasting monuments are doubtless paper-monuments.
You can make a mule cross the river but you cant make him drink the water.
Sitting down beside the boxes.
They only fall asleep after having mutually taken an oath and then they betray each other.
There are old men of three years old and children of a hundred.
Even honey can taste bitter if it's used as medicine.
Three hairs are quickly combed.
Bread is the staff of life.
His own wound is what everyone feels soonest.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
Custom is a tyrant.
Resolutely in action, gently in manner.
It is easier to prevent ill habits than to break them.
He who enjoys the first fruit of a country is son of that country.
It's vain to learn wisdom yet live foolishly.
Joke, joke, discharges pus.
Hunger fetches the wolf out of the woods.
Pretend you're in great danger, and you'll find out if you have any friends.
Setting the conditions before you make an agreement is better than having an argument in the middle of the work.
The greater the fear the nearer the danger.
Even the longest day has its end.
Knowledge is in the head, not the copybook.
A bad compromise is better than a successful suit.
If a woman sees a stick for beating her rival, she will throw it away in the woods.
Whine less, breathe more,
The darkest hour is just before the dawn.
He who follows his own advice must take the consequences.
Too much zeal spoils all.
Respect for one's parents is the highest duty of civil life.
If a soldier doesn't have ambitions to become a general is not a good soldier.
He who buys what he don't want, will soon sell what he does want.
The lesse play the better.
By the yard, life is hard. By the inch, it's a cinch.
Although you broke the bone, you did not suck out the marrow.
Measure twice, cut once.
Something that looks good does not necessarily taste good.
What is bred in the bone will not out of the flesh.
The worst of law is that one suit breeds twenty.
A man of few words but learned withal.
Love has produced some heroes but many idiots too.
In a good book the best is between the lines.
We're all a little crazy in one way or another.
The moon moves slowly, but it crosses the town.
Fear lends wings.
he tried to pluck under her/his eyebrow, but blinded the eye.
He that hath no ill fortune is troubled with good.
Neck or naething, the king loes nae cripples.
A hasty man never wanted woe.
He who crosses a bridge to paradise and blows it after him is going to hell.
Never dump your old pot just because you have bought a new one.
When friends ask, there is no tomorrow.
A large chair does not make a king.
One does not become a master diviner in a day. A forest is not made in a season. The swoop of an eagle has seen many seasons and floods...
He that swims in sin will sink in sorrow.
Endeavor to bear the ignorance of fortune with patience.
Alder fire, false fire.
A wise man doesn't see his foot on the ground, he watches his next step.
The well trodden path is not always the right path.
Everyone should contribute when collection is made.
If God should listen to rooks, he should send a plague to horses.
We speak them fairest when thoughts are falsest and wile the wisest of hearts.
Three know it, all know it.
Syracuse is a lovely place, with five bucks you can eat, drink, and get by.
Every exit is an entry to somewhere.
Let the guest go before the storm bursts.
Strong attachment is difficult -- it makes one mad or kills.
One would like to eat honey, but would not like to get stung.
It's not the fault of the parrot, but of the one who teaches him to talk.
Better a stride that will last than a trot that tires fast.
By pounding the dough the bread will rise.
Seat yourself in your place and you will not be made to quit it.
Dare to be wise. [Sapere aude.].
A bequest, a found treasure, and parsimony make a man wealthy.
The stomach has no windows.
When you are very angry, don't go to a lawyer; when you are very hungry, don't be a poet.
Proverbs in conversation are torches in darkness.
The big drum only sounds well from a distance.
A woman is attractive when she is somebody else's wife.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
Who has seen death will be content with illness.
The fertile field becomes sterile without rest.
External link to Wikipedia page on Costa Rica for further reading.
Who sows evil shall reap perdition.
There's many a good man to be found under a shabby hat.
If the main timbers in the house are not straight, the smaller timber will be unsafe.
Insults must be written in sand and compliments carved in stone.
If you have one pair of good soles it is better than two pairs of good uppers.
No one is wise in his own affairs.
You talk to a wall!
If you cannot drive an ox, drive a donkey.
He who is guilty has much to say.
It is better to be without a wife for a minute than without tobacco for an hour.
He seeks renown by public applause.
'Tis a stinger.
She hath past the discipline of a Tavern.
Set hard heart against hard hap.
With the fox one must play the fox.
A great ship asks for deep waters.
A cat likes to eat fresh fish but it will not go into the water.
Nothing dries sooner than tears.
He who shares my bread and salt is not my enemy.
God's mill grinds slow but sure.
You cannot be lost on a road that is straight.
A woman is as old as she wants to tell you she is.
The son of a duck is a floater.
Fear does not empty tomorrow of its sadness; it empties today of its power.
Patience wears out stones.
The rabbit has different eyes than the owl's.
We're hungry and lean.
A great estate is not gotten in a few hours.
Who eats too much, will then be sick.
A man of one cow – a man of no cow.
Nothing bears a stronger resemblance to a madman than a man when drunk.
Where rain has ever been trapped before when it rains again it will get trapped once again.
Pluck it from among the thistles, and we will take it off your hands.
Worship the gods of where you live.
Advice is a free gift that can become expensive for the one who gets it.
If not today - when?
If you called yourself a milk-mushroom ? get into the basket!.
When a thief kisses you, count your teeth.
Envy breeds hate.
A woman is the last judgement of the man.
If you put a rope around your neck, many people will be glad to drag you by it.
The wind does not always blow from the same quarter.
No matter how far down a wrong road you are, turn back.
The old fox sheds its old hair, but not its old habits.
If rubles fell from heaven the poor would have no bag.
One doesn't follow a wild beast into its lair.
One at a time is good fishing; two at a time is making a hog of yourself.
How well I feathered my nest.
Man fools himself. He prays for a long life, and he fears an old age.
When fools make mistakes, they lay the blame on providence.
Great boast, small roast.
There can be no judge without an accused.
The best cast at dice is not to play.
Many words don't fill the sack.
A man cannot jump over his own shadow.
When the cat's away the mouse sits on its throne.
Anything big is small at the beginning.
It is not from the love of God that the cat catches mice.
A smile shortens the distance.
Cherry blossoms in the recesses of a mountain.
Hold fast when you have.
On a steep road, let your horse set the pace.
Everyone is the blacksmith of his own fortune.
Man no hab gourdy, him satisfy wid bottle.
Better rue sit than rue flit.
Before you make a friend, eat a pack of salt with him.
A frog in a well shaft.
Не will never set the Thames on fire.
It is ungentlemanly to lie; truthfulness becomes the gentleman.
A bit of fragrance always clings to the hand that gives you roses.
A good beginning is half the work.
Do not boast of a thing until it is done.
Where there's no fire there's no smoke.
If you want a fine wife, don't pick her on a Sunday.
A person who wish for something impossible.
Fall seven times, stand up the eighth.
We must go back and reclaim our past so we can move forward.
It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted.
He who is drunk from wine can sober up, he who is drunk from wealth cannot.
I am just as good as you are, and a damned sight better.
Never do anything standing that you can do sitting, or anything sitting that you can do lying down.
A guilty conscience feels continual fear.
The bad workman blames his tools.
Every bird needs its own feathers.
The beggars will be sent onto Kemijoki-river's ice in the spring and then we'll wait 'till the ice melts.
Constant dripping wears away stone.
Anger makes dull men witty, but it keeps them poor. (Francis Bacon)
The post of honour is the post of danger.
It is hard for an ex-king to become a night watchman.
Brawl with a pig and you go away with his stink.
You can't dance on one leg.
Better no law than laws not enforced.
If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings.
Death is the key that will open a miser's coffers.
Never kill a man who says nothing.
He who has no voice in the valley, will have none in the council.
You can't direct the wind, but you can adjust your sails.
Instead of better, it got worse.
Small cheer and great welcome make a great feast.
The man who claims to be the boss in his own home will lie about other things as well.
The rose has thorns only for those who would gather it.
Eggs have no business dancing with stones.
Hard by a river he digs a well.
A camel does not tease another camel about his humps.
Command your man, and do it yourself.
Don't walk behind me; I may not lead.
A wounded horse trembles when he sees the saddle.
If a native of pemba can get a log he does not relive himself on the ground.ie nothing but the best.
He is never likely to have a good thing cheap that is afraid to ask a price.
The goose that has lost its head no longer cackles.
Bolder than a rooster.
You can't shoe a horse while it is running.
One comes to be of just such stuff as that on which the mind is set.
He who treads the path of love walks a thousand meters as if it were only one.
What is here is elsewhere, what is not here is no where.
The dog that's late is bringing the catch.
Don't leave the main road for a shortcut.
If one link has broken so has the whole chain.
It is too late for you, let God give your children some intelligence.
The heap of yams you will reap depends upon the number of mounds you have plowed.
Advice, like water, takes the form of the vessel which it is poured into.
Alligator lay egg but him no fowl.
You can't make a hockey team without breaking a few legs.
A good heart never went to hell.
It is not easy to pluck hairs from a bald pate.
Such things happen even to better folk.
It is one thing to boast, another to fight.
Good management is better than good income.
The woman who gives birth to a child is like the banana tree that breaks under the weight of its fruit.
A man is often a bad adviser to himself and a good adviser to another.
If there is no traitor in your house, the witches will never be able to get at you.
As the big hound is, so will the pup be.
Every one to his own calling, and the ox to the plough.
If you let them put the calf on your shoulders, it will not be long before they clap on the cow.
As soon as the monkey has climbed a tree, it will start abusing from its elevated position.
He cannot be a friend to any one who is his own enemy.
Never celebrate someone's leaving, until you know who will succeed him.
Always has booze found its drinker.
Don't be scared when you have no other choice.
You cannot write down a meaningful silence.
If someone is waiting for something important they wouldn't die until they achieve it.
If your mind is strong, all difficult things will become easy; if your mind is weak, all easy things will become difficult.
The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life.
One doesn't examine the teeth of a gift horse.
Mewing cats catch no mice.
Who eats a lot will make a mountain.
Monks have both a capacious sleeve and a tight sleeve.
He who is of no use to himself is of no use to anyone else.
The road to ruin is kept in good repair, and the travellers pay the expense.
The young crow is wiser than its mother.
Don't pride over your wealth or beauty, one will be gone in a night and the other with a fever.
If you are always dwelling in trouble, change your address.
He preaches water and drinks wine.
You cannot cook one half of the chicken and leave the other lay eggs.
The reverse side also has a reverse side.
Only chained bears dance.
A change of event such as the death of a leader, will lead to other changes.
They asked the mule who his father was.
Every country has its custom.
Gratitude is the memory of the heart.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
Youth is wasted on the young.
Never trust a woman, even if she has borne you seven children.
He who ploughs with young oxen, makes crooked furrows.
A heavy stone is not easily moved.
When a man gets his feet in lime he cannot easily get rid of it.
Bad watch often feeds the wolf.
Who borrows has to pay back his debt.
Where we least think, there goeth the hare away.
Of other men's leather large thongs.
The sick man sleeps when the debtor cannot.
A kiss without a beard is like an egg without salt.
There is more disputing about the shell than the kernel.
Women, asses, and nuts, require strong hands.
If you give orders and leave, the work won't get done.
You can't get blood out of a turnip.
The gallows is not made for the rich, but for the head of the peasant.
Though we may pluck flowers by the way we may not sleep among flowers.
Nothing comes sooner to light, than that which is long hid.
True happiness is places in virtue.
One finger cannot remove lice from the head.
He knows the roads by which he has escaped before.
A pig in a parlor is still a pig.
If you enjoy riding, you better enjoy pulling the sleigh.
Law cannot persuade where it cannot punish.
The bucket goes down the well every day -- some day it won't come up again.
Sorrow will pay no debts.
First bake the strudel then sit down and ponder.
Night soil.
With an old husband's hide one buys a young one.
He who wants content can't find an easy chair.
From shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations.
Drumming is not the way to catch a hare.
Service is not inheritance.
A merry life forgets father and mother.
Every head must do its own thinking.
Beauty is silent eloquence.
When one is helping another, both gain in strength.
When the hen steps on the feet of her chicken, she does not mean to kill them.
A harvest of peace is produced from a seed of contentment.
Barking follows you home.
The weaker the patient is, the sooner the sickness will end.
The song sang by men when going to hunt is not the same song they sing when they come back.
Life has become a little less sweet, death a little less bitter, heaven a little more real.
Enough's as good as a feast.
A bandicoot is lovely to his parents; a mule is pretty to its mate.
You may preach ever so long to the wolf, he will nevertheless call for the lamb before night.
The voice of a poor man does not carry very far.
No matter how fast a man can run, he can never chase his shadow and catch it.
You'll beguile none but those that trust you.
Habit causes love.
What is placed in the fire has a valuable role to play but leaves nothing behind when it's gone.
If the stomachache were in the foot, one would go lame.
For the buyer a hundred eyes are too few, for the seller one is enough.
The person who pursues revenge should dig two graves.
Putting the fox to mind the geese.
We have quite enough to do weeding our own garden.
The water is running in the river, father drink it, mother drink it.
Friendly is as friendly does.
If it were ever to rain soup, the poor would only have forks.
There will be no bread from that flour.
To cry with one eye, and laugh with the other.
Every man is the builder of his own hut.
Through being too knowing the fox lost his tail.
A bad workman always blames his tools.
A chicken sees the snake's foot and a snake sees the chicken's breast.
Once resolved, the trouble is over.
Nothing is impossible to a willing mind.
There will be a day for the oppressor when he will be crushed like garlic.
He who digs a pit for someone else, often falls into it himself.
The only thing a heated argument ever produced is coolness.
Sticks in a bundle are unbreakable.
The law has a nose of wax.
The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap.
A deal is a deal... Until a better one comes along.
No gains without pains.
He that paints a flower does not give it perfume.
The lover of a student does not always become the wife of a graduate.
Reshape one's foot to try to fit into a new shoe.
Those that are afraid of bad luck will never know good.
Work hard, keep the ceremonies, live peaceably, and unite your hearts.
Never let your education interfere with your intelligence.
He tint never a Cow, that grat for a needle.
Bind the sack before it is full.
Walk your own road and bear your own load.
Never kiss an opportunity with a dirty mouth.
Mr. Not-present was the brave man.
It belongs neither to the sea nor to the mountain.
A palm tree climber is not expected to tell everything he sees from up above.
Avarice hoards itself poor; charity gives itself rich.
The bitch in her haste brings forth blind puppies.
Few believe to err is human and to smack, divine.
Everybody thinks his own cuckoo sings better than another's nightingale.
The festival of mpaza comes to pass.
Work and you will be strong; sit and you will stink.
An empty mill will turn without the wind.
Death rides with the drinking driver.
If the king says that it is night in the middle of the day, look up at the stars.
Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth.
Who takes cover under the branch, collects what rains and collects what falls.
When spider webs unite, they tie up a lion.
That grief is light which is capable of counsel.
A sabbath well-spent brings a week of content.
A worthy man is still worthy even penniless, a donkey is a donkey even if he is finely saddled.
Flowers are the pledges of fruit.
The lotus springs from the mud.
The beginning of sin is sweet; its end is bitter.
If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains.
Bad birds seldom bring good weather.
Death is the poor man's best physician.
Children are the reward of life.
He who sows everywhere harvests nowhere.
Silks and satins, scarlet and velvet, put out the kitchen fire.
Where the army goes there is no grass.
Our examples are like seeds on a windy day, they spread far and wide.
Business and folding screens must be crooked to stand.
Give a thing, and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring.
Plenty breeds pride.
A back does not break from bending.
Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge.
Worthless people blame their karma.
On fat land grow foulest weeds.
A dog owns nothing, yet is seldom dissatisfied.
The cat who snoops around will feed his kitten.
Grasp no more than thy hand will hold.
A pot that build attracts the cook.
Kill not the goose that laid the golden egg.
The sick bed makes the doctor.
It's best to wash one's soiled linen at home.
He who lacks ideas makes those of others his own.
A single [man] in a field is not a warrior.
There is a wise reason why a cock can't sound like a turkey.
Tell me what you brag about and I'll tell you what you lack.
Better a devil you know than a hundred strangers.
The best asset is a clean conscience.
There is life in a mussel as lang is it cheeps.
Change yourself, and your luck will change.
You can learn a lot about someone by observing him when he is hungry.
We work on the surface, the depths are a mystery.
Industry need not wish.
Ill comes often on the back of worse.
Think on the end before you begin.
Where the body wants to rest, there the legs must carry it.
Soft and fair goeth far.
There is not the son of the front and the son of the back.
Mad desire, when it has the most, longs for more.
Loaning money causes loss of memory.
Heaven is dark and yet out of it streams clear water.
Keep company with good men, and you'll increase their number.
He that marries for love has good nights, but sorry days.
A cat always knows whose meat it eats.
If crab don't walk 'bout crab don't eat.
Homely in the cradle, pretty at the table.
Who has no intention to pray has no ears for the call to prayer.
The beasts plan ahead before entering the fields.
Hope may give a man strength, but not sense.
What is good returns.
The best memory is that which forgets nothing, but injuries. Write kindness in marble and write injuries in the dust.
One drink can lead to one's downfall.
Without a woman's help, a man cannot set up a tent.
No cook ever died of starvation.
All of the Earth's treasures can't bring back a lost moment.
You don't spin, you don't weave, or wind, so where did you get this pile of money?
The night may be dark, but the apples have been counted.
If you sleep under a tree, you can't prevent the leaf from falling on you.
She who loves an ugly man thinks him handsome.
A bite from a lion is better the look of envy.
A mouse that removes the palm-nut that turns out to be the bait of a trap, would already have known that the palm-nut does not ripen on the ground.
It is the traveller who carries the news.
It's better when people wonder why you didn't say something than why you did.
Worms don't like the robin's song.
Better to have one bird in hand than ten on the roof.
Fear the man of one book.
A young doctor brings a green churchyard.
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you visit a place where the chief himself sits on floor.
A pound of care will not pay a pound of debt.
Rosary is hand, the devil at heart.
The nightingale can't be fed by fables.
He that has no money might as well be buried in a rice tub with his mouth sewn up.
The less wit a man has, the less he knows that he wants it.
Better to learn one thing well than to know ten superficially.
We hang little thieves, and let great ones escape.
Whatever man has done, man may do.
Every one tries to cross the fence where it is lowest.
The lowest fence is the easiest to get across.
Idle folks lack no excuses.
Tears never flow in the house of a coward.
If this ball does not stick to the wall it will at least leave a mark.
Not behaving and not organizing are as good as throwing yourself away.
Fine words do not produce food.
Books speak to the mind, friends to the heart, heaven to the soul, all else to the ears.
Many children and little bread is a painful pleasure.
One gives twice who gives quickly.
I am what you will be, I was what you now are.
You are sharp on one side like a knife.
He that boasteth of himself affronteth his company.
There is many a slip ‘twixt cup and lip.
Love hes no lack.
Knowledge is eith born about.
Barnaby bright, Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night.
Children are certain sorrow, but uncertain joy.
Unmistakable lawyer. Immortal medicineman.
The people make the town.
Youths talk first and then listen, the elderly listen and then talk.
Write with the learned, but speak with the vulgar.
When water goes over your head, what difference if it's one fathom or a hundred fathoms.
Go to bed with lamb and rise with the lark.
He whoa breeds crows, will have his eyes taken out- you harvest what you planted.
If mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
Vice is nourished by concealment.
Even a sugar mother-in-law tastes bitter.
Our neighbour's crop is always more fruitful and his cattle produce more milk than our own.
Jest not with the eye, or religion.
A mountain of knives and a sea of fire.
All of life is a dream walking, all of death is a going home.
Red sky in the morning shepherds warning.
What is said over the dead lion's body, could not be said to him alive.
He is miserable once, who feels it; but twice, who fear it before it comes.
The person who enjoys good health is rich, even if he doesn't know it.
He fights with horns made of clay.
A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times.
Everything worthwhile has a fence around it, but there is always a gate and a key.
A greasy kitchen; a will with not much in it.
You catch the mice with bacon.
Better a distant good than a near evil.
Don't stick your nose where you en wanted.
It is little use to dig a well after the house has caught fire.
An inflated idea can burst the bubble of your happiness.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
He who cannot speak well of his trade does not understand it.
If you feed the mouth, the eye becomes shy.
A hut is a palace to the poor man.
Running on the roof finishes at the edge.
A lean compromise is better than a fat lawsuit.
The best part of repentance is a little sinning.
A clay pot of water is never hot-tempered.
The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
We can't change the direction of the wind, but we can adjust the sails.
Be gay today, for tomorrow you may die.
A canoe peddler doesn't tell the crocodile he has along snout until he's crossed the river.
The youngest kitten already chases mice.
Prayer from de mout' alone is no prayer.
He who is sick will not refuse medicine.
When you see a sheep's wool sky you know, if it doesn't rain today, it will rain in the morning.
Words are mere bubbles of water, but deeds are drops of gold.
Lookers-on see most of the game.
He's a proud fox that winna scrape his ain hole.
Mountains are not esteemed because they are high, but because they have trees.
They planted so we ate, and we plant so they would eat.
A determined hunter is never frightened in the jungle.
When a girl whistles, the angels cry.
When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan, along comes the beetle and sticks out her foot.
The cat is always dignified, until the dog comes by.
Where it is customary the cow is brought to bed.
A man who is his own doctor has a fool for his patient.
A man does not always aim at what he means to hit.
Do not add oil to the fire.
He hasn't time even to scratch his head.
One would not be alone in Paradise.
Death will cure all pain.
Cider on beer, never fear; beer upon cider, makes a bad rider.
He who receives a gift does not measure.
Ill weeds grow apace.
Hunger is the best seasoning.
I want to thank you in an empty church and dry saloon.
"Wha sweeten yu mouth goin bitter yu tail.
Wisdom is easy to carry but difficult to gather.
Wisdom is like a good skin bag every man carries his own.
The eye of a crow boiled at the new moon brings good luck for the New Year.
Those who betray their friends must not expect others to keep faith with them.
The first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy.
It is the essence of good taste to do that which is consistent with our position.
They are as far apart as Mako is from Jerusalem.
A little thing can ruin the whole thing.
The only thing we learn from new elections is we learned nothing from the old.
Assertion is no proof.
Cowards die many times.
Luck is infatuated with the efficient.
A piece of incense may be as large as the knee, but unless burned emits no fragrance.
To spend the night in anger is better than to spend it repenting.
Simo was under the bridge when other boys were revised.
One who keeps saying 'I will listen and obey' will be cooked with the corn cob.
The bad neighbor gives a needle without thread.
The good lawyer knows the law, the clever one knows the judge.
Fair words fill not the belly.
That put the red kite among the hens.
The shoemaker's son always goes barefoot.
People seek out big shots as flies seek out the elephant's tail.
KOH = Koiviston Heinot, 2003. Koonnut Unto Erlamo. ISBN 952-91-6089-5.
Do not speak of secret matters in a field that is full of little hills.
There are no foolish trades, there are only foolish people.
Have faith in a stone and you will be healed by it.
Disputing and borrowing cause grief and sorrowing.
He who keeps his old clothes, gains new ones too.
Behind the dog it is "dog,” in front of it, it's "mister dog.”.
A cat has nine lives.
You can't put an old head on young shoulders.
A rich man has no need of character.
It is not a secret if it is known by three people.
If you cannot build a town, build a heart.
If the young had the motivation and the old had the strength, there'd be nothing that couldn't be accomplished.
To blame the wind for the rain that does not fall.
Klingons are born to fight and conquer.
Drink nothing with out seeing it; sign nothing without reading it.
Spilled wine is a sign of happiness, but break the bed and all will have long faces.
Many an injury comes from a fool's speech.
You cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
Don't stand by the water and long for fish; go home and weave a net.
The person who does not listen to an elder's advice gets his or her leg broken.
He who has cattle on the hill will not sleep easy.
He that has a good harvest must be able to endure a few thistles.
He who has no job should search for a camel.
Beauty is a fading flower.
If God breaks your leg, he will teach you how to limp.
Don't scuffle with the potter, for he makes money by the damage.
Bad to do evil, but worse to boast about it.
It is bad to lean against a falling wall.
An ennobled peasant does not know his own father.
Better die with honour than live with shame.
The cure is worse than the disease.
Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision.
Hold your children with your heart but teach them with your hands.
What you reap is what you sow.
In the house of a blacksmith the ornaments are made of wood.
Paradise is under mothers' feet.
A fair woman without virtue is like palled wine.
There is not enough room for two elephants to sit in the same shade.
By all means trust in Allah, but tie your camel first.
Better lose a jest than a friend.
A proverb is to speech what salt is to food.
It is better to be a male for one day than a female for ten.
Death said to the man with his throat cut, "How ugly you look."
When the sun sets, lazy people prepare.
Who receives, should thank; who gives, should be silent.
The distant fields look greener.
Tald ob de debil an you heeh he wings.
If all else fails, read the directions.
Those far, far away are seldom seen for what they really are.
The squeaking wheel gets the grease.
You cannot make an omelette without breaking eggs.
If you want beauty, you must be injured.
A small tear relieves a great sorrow.
Money is like muck – no good till spread.
A guilty dog always barks.
Who gives the bread lays down the authority.
When a camel falls to the ground, the knives are many.
Let not your shirt know all your thoughts.
A lame man always speaks when it's time to run.
The cobbler to his last and the gunner to his linstock.
Without seeing the mountain, do not tuck up your skirt, without seeing the water, do not take off your boots.
Over a distance of a thousand miles only humanity works, not power.
Guilty conscience wont let the eddoes cook.
When the cat is gone, the mice come out to stretch.
Two eyes see more than one.
When building a house, don't measure the timbers in the forest.
He who sows inequity shall reap shame.
Fools need advice most, but wise men only are the better for it.
Go early to market and as late as you can to battle.
Hope and expectation are a fool's income.
Superfine green beans, tomatoes and chasselas grapes.
None of us knows who we are.
Ambition is like hunting for whales – sometimes you lose them.
Cultivate not a barren soil.
Fear is power.
Air castles are good; now put foundations under them.
It's the empty can that makes the most noise.
A dog on the run is safely kicked.
Any excuse is good if it hold good.
Measure thy cloth ten times, thou canst cut it but once.
Praise paves the way to friendship.
Learning makes a man fit company for himself as well as for others.
Ye may drive the deil into a wife, but ye'll ne'er ding him oot o' her.
If February isn't cold and rainy, the March landscape will be green.
It is easy to cut the tail of a dead wolf.
The wicked work harder to preach hell than the righteous do to get to heaven.
"we have rowed well,” said the flea as the fishing boat arrives at its mooring.
"He who does not go forward, loses ground." or "He who does not accomplish anything, is a failure/has shortcomings.”.
Before healing others, heal yourself.
Well started is half won.
It's safer to commend the dead than the living.
Earning encourages diligence.
It is one life, whether we spend it in laughing or in weeping.
Shit or get off the pot.
The sky does not rain gold or silver.
A fool laughs when the village burns.
If each person would sweep before his own house, the city would soon be clean.
Even the best horse needs to be spurred.
Stupidity is a disease without a medicine.
The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease.
If you want to eat a toad, you should look for a fat and juicy one.
Watch out for wooden nickels.
England's difficulty is Ireland's opportunity.
He who blows dust fills his eyes with it.
When an abomination has become of age it becomes a tradition.
To give is honor, to beg is dishonor.
What you can dead and leave you can live and see or enjoy.
Anyone can buy a good house, but good neighbors are priceless.
Fear gives wings.
To love and be wise is impossible.
Be a horse ever so well shod, he may slip.
Goods given make quicker return than goods held.
You can't take a cow from a man who has no cows.
When God will not, the saints cannot.
We've abandoned our harvest to pick out hemp seeds.
What would you expect from an ass but a kick?
More grows in the garden than the gardener knows he has sown.
The hyena does not eat its baby, and you know how insatiable it is.
What is bred in the bone will never come out of the flesh.
Plenty makes dainty.
If you sit by the river long enough, you will see the body of your enemy float by.
In great action, men show themselves as they ought to be, in small action as they are.
A secret is too little for one, enough for two, too much for three.
I tell my daughter, my daughter-in-law should understand it.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the angel of death.
Talent without skill is like a desert without an oasis.
Beware of he whose goodness you can't ask for for and whose evil you can't be protected from.
Only the feet of the voyager know the path.
What is said when the drunk has been thought out beforehand.
Give way to him with whom you contend; by doing so you will gain the victory.
To know one's self is to know others, for heart can understand heart.
Who buys cheap pays twice.
Forgetness is the plague of knowledge.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a crane on the wing.
Smart is the one who goes along with time, stupid is the one who bears his fangs.
Praise your horse tomorrow, your son when he has a beard, your daughter when she is married and yourself never.
Whoever plows with a team of donkeys must have patience.
Women are never at a loss for words.
Where six cooks are, there is nothing to eat.
Strung like flowers on the same lei needle. Married.
Bare-footed men need not tread upon thorns.
It's more brave to live than to die.
To have security, plan ahead.
God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn.
To have luck needs little wit.
Knock on the sky and Listen to the sound.
A friend is like a poem.
He that endures is not overcome.
A man of courage never wants weapons.
Just as a medicine may not cure a serious illness, wine will certainly not dispel your grief.
The Sluggard works twice, the niggard pays twice.
Out of the ashes into the fire.
Old habits die hard.
He can cheat a fish of its skin.
Though the wind blows, the mountain does not move.
One does not wash one's dirty linen in public.
You must crack the nuts before you can eat the kernel.
Scandal will rub out like dirt when it is dry.
A girl draws more than a rope.
'tis written, "what's not your own, that let alone.”.
Beauty widout grace like rose widout smell.
As is the lover so is the beloved.
In church, in the taverns, and in coffins all men are equal.
If you have a loitering servant, set his dinner before him and send him on an errand.
Draw a cake to satisfy one's hunger.
He that complies against his will is of his own opinion still.
Time cures the sick man, not the ointment.
Among the blind the one-eyed is the king.
Anything will fit a naked man.
As is the gardener, so is the garden.
Deep calls to deep.
Deceit is in haste, but honesty can wait a fair leisure.
You have a lifetime to work, but children are only young once.
In the desert of life the wise person travels by caravan.
Prepaid work is slow.
He beat me and cried, and went before me to complain.
It is not good to paint the devil on the wall.
Tell not ever an evil man if misfortunes thee befall.
One mouth doesn't taste the beer.
The man with a fixed income lives with anxiety and suffers as the costs of goods fluctuate.
Fame lives on after death.
If I peddle salt, it rains; if I peddle flour, the wind blows.
He that has a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
Don't water your friend's garden when yours is full of weeds.
Talk of a wolf and the wolf appears.
When the head aches, all the limbs ache.
If a girl seems as shy as a mouse, you still have to look out for the tiger within her.
The dead cannot come to kinsmen's aid.
'tis the mind ennobles, not the blood.
A friend's dinner is soon dressed.
Keep not ill company lest you increase the number.
One should first stab a hyena then aim for a lion.
Between brother and brother, accounts should be square.
A friend to everybody and to nobody is the same thing.
The lawsuit of a fool keeps the court all day.
From the mouths of babes and drunkards, you will learn the truth.
All are not friends who speak one fair.
There's no bread without hoe.
He who throws away money with his hands will seek it with his feet.
Friar Modest never was a prior.
You can see a mote in another's eye, but cannot see a beam in your own.
The old man gives the best advice.
Need makes the naked man run and sorrow makes websters spin.
You cannot be lucky forever.
Bare is brotherless back.
When there are two friends to one purse, one sings, the other weeps.
How you make your bed, thus will you rest.
It' better fi lose yu timedan yu character.
What the wolf mourns is food for the fox.
Charity is the matter of the heart not of the pocket.
You can dead longer than ya live.
The fool is thirsty in the midst of water.
The girl as she is taught, the flax as it is wrought.
Poverty is no vice, but an inconvenience.
The lamp is not burning for those asleep.
A dog never bit me but I had some of his hair.
You must have crossed the river before you may tell the crocodile he has bad breath.
As is well that ends well.
He who is slow to anger is longer getting over it.
A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for.
Never murder a man who is about to commit suicide.
Experience is more important than theory.
Heroism consists of hanging on one minute longer.
The prettiest of shoes makes a sorry hat.
Sit where you are welcomed and helped, and don't sit where you are not welcomed.
The heron blames the water because he cannot swim.
Don't eat your bread on someone else's table.
Wait till you trough put, then bubble in it.
Pray to the saint until you have passed the slough.
Give every man your ear but few your voice.
A wise man can laugh at his jokes.
Death is a shadow that always follows the body.
There is never an old brogue but there is a foot to fit it.
The child does not cry as long as it has its way.
Work is burning down to his nail.
He that fears leaves must not come into a wood.
If marriages are made in heaven, you twa hae few friends there.
Three comforts of old age: fire, tea and tobacco.
Tell me where it itches if you want me to scratch you.
Big in the words, small on the ground.
Can a mill go with the water that's past?
They don't hit you in the nose for asking.
A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse.
Three diseases without shame: Love, itch and thirst.
Once bitten, twice shy.
There are three things that can destroy a preacher, the glory, the gold, and the girls.
Don't hit one on the face.
A proverb is the child of experience.
A woman without a man is like a garden without a fence.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks.
The mouth does not know limitations of its master.
Who lets a woman slap him is as humiliated as if a pig has bitten.
Horse, don't die yet, grass is coming.
The water bag drips on its carrier's flank.
No thanks attach to a kindness long deferred.
There are three kinds of enemy: the enemy himself, the friends of your enemy, and the enemies of your friends.
Hunger is hard in a heal man.
A great anvil fears not noise.
Light supper makes long life.
A day after the fair.
When a greek shakes your hand, count your fingers after.
A wild goose may be worth a hundred pieces of gold, but you first have to spend three pieces of gold to buy an arrow.
Skill or fortune will efface the spots.
Loose tongues are worse than wicked hands.
A market can be spoilt by one woman.
Half a word to the wise is enough.
When two elephants fight the grass gets trampled.
When eating the fruit, think of the person who planted the tree.
They can do least who boast loudest.
Don't shoot people you hate; don't lend to those you love.
Man is the only animal who can be skinned twice.
No one is a blacksmith when they are born.
The miser will stubbornly live poorly in order to die rich.
Great men's requests are commands.
If you see in your wine the reflection of a person not in your range of vision, don't drink it.
All that's fair must fade.
It is too late to throw water on the cinders when the house is burnt down.
A cat has nine lives; for three he plays, for three he strays, and for the last three he stays.
The love of the wicked is more dangerous than their hatred.
The person who is not ashamed does whatever he wants.
A clock that stands still is better than one that goes wrong.
The First glass is for health, the second - for joy, the third - for fun, the fourth - for madness.
Almond nuts come to those who have no teeth.
When I hear you, I believe you. When I see what you do, i'm surprised.
No matter how thoroughly a crow may wash, it remains ever black.
On flows the time, half full still the heart of mine, coffee, smoking, all is fine.
Those above are going down, those below are going up.
Raise no more devils than you can lay.
Learn who are your friends when you are in need.
Where there is a rooster the chicken will not crow.
He who has a tongue, may go to Rome.
Only a fool would prefer food to a woman.
Only the man who is not hungry says the coconut has a hard shell.
The early riser is healthy, cheerful and industrious.
Blind men should not judge of colours.
Keep the bone and the dog will follow.
You will see something as surely as a pig will see heaven.
Even a giant oak was once an acorn.
When the businessmen sleep, the ad works.
The tulip is, among flowers, what the peacock is among birds. A tulip lacks scent, a peacock has an unpleasant voice. The one takes pride in its garb, the other in its tail.
He who gets out of debt enriches himself.
Cost goes before the profit.
Weeds last the season.
White hands are no offence.
Don't respond to a mosquito bit with a stone because you you will miss it and hunt yourself.
He has meikle prayer but little devotion.
When the sun is shining, bask.
Don't be afraid of a spot that can be removed with water.
Don't show me the palm-tree, show me the dates.
You cannot wash charcoal white.
Stupidity is a force unto itself.
Be never the first with friend of thine to break the bond of fellowship.
The man in mast, the hasty on deck.
The world exists on three things: truth, justice, and peace.
A father's love, for all other is air.
Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will break my spirit.
You cannot jump higher than your head.
Better leave than lack.
Even one hundred words lead to one end.
One enemy is too many; 100 friends are far too few.
The fox and the girls have the same mind, the fox has cunning eyes and the girls glib tongues.
The great scholar forgets about fame, the average scholar works for it, and the unworthy scholar steals it.
A dog does not mind being called a dog.
When man pikin dey piss, him dey hold something for hand. Woman wey try-am, go piss for her hand.
There are fish in the sea better than have ever been caught.
February fill dyke, be it black or be it white.
To be willing is only half the task.
If there's thunder at capu di staghju, leave the wheat outside.
Who more than he is worth doth spend, he makes a rope his life to end.
We'll cross that bridge when we come to it.
What raging rashly is begun, Challengeth shame before half done.
The empty gives the way to the full.
A meeting in sunlight is lucky, and a burying in the rain.
The more help in the cornfield the smaller the harvest.
High climbers and deep swimmers never grow old.
They need much, whom nothing will content.
The portion that a man keeps for himself is usually not the smallest.
A cold April the barn will fill.
Many go out for wool, and come home shorn.
The ox that feeds itself does not spoil its skin.
Ignorance is the worst acquaintance.
There are four things to which you should not lend credence: love of women, the charity of friars, sun in the winter, and clouds in the summer.
If you are not so strong, don't carry heavy burdens.
You cannot be very smart if you have never done anything foolish.
Proffered service is little valued.
All days' evening is not come.
As poor as a church mouse.
There is no fish in well-water, there is no leaf on dry wood.
Ride an elephant to catch a grasshopper.
A good fellow tint never, but at an ill fellows hand.
Why would you use poison if you can kill with honey.
First clean out your own backyard.
It is better to look from the mountain than from the dungeon.
Honour the tree that gives you shelter.
Fear makes the wolf bigger than he is.
God save us from the end of March and the beginning of April.
One refusing a sibling's advice breaks his arm.
A prince without ears to listen has no head to govern.
If some men knew who some men were, then some would pay the more honour there.
All men think their enemies ill men.
They are people of experience who do not sleep at a strange place.
Love is a despot who spares no one.
A spot shows most on the finest cloth.
A leader is not necessarily one who knows the way but one who thinks he knows the way.
Where a man feels pain he lays his hand.
Call the bear uncle till you are safe across the bridge.
Master absent and house dead.
It's but kindly that the pock savour of the herring.
Words are dwarfs, deeds are giants.
Take time to smell the roses.
Just one by one white hairs have come, and thus have they grown.
Never let a hyena know how well you can bite.
A man is taller than every mountain he climbs.
When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion.
The heart of a woman is as capricious as a drop of water on a lotus leaf.
Who receives a gift sells his liberty.
A joke driven too far brings home hate.
One must sometimes hold a candle to the devil.
A bad mother wishes for good children.
Art is long and life is short.
Better for a man to have even a dog welcome him than a dog bark at him.
The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it.
It is easier to catch an escaped horse than to take back an escaped word.
A secret between two is god's secret; a secret between three is known to all.
God gives us each a song.
As cold as ice.
God sends us the meat, but it is the Devil who sends us cooks.
The son of the leopard scratches like its mother.
No matter how smart a person is, eventually he will make a mistake.
May the Great Spirit bless all who enter there.
Turn your face to the sun and the shadows fall behind you.
Let the sword decide only after the plan has failed.
What starts with a needle usually ends with a silver bowl.
Raw leather will stretch.
It has neither rhyme nor reason.
Cunning men deal in generalizations.
It is usually dark below the candlestick.
One who bathes willingly with cold water doesn't feel the cold.
Do not be like the mosquito that bites the owner of the house.
The king of the bees has no sting.
There's no making apples of plums.
It is better to be married to an old lady than to remain unmarried.
A clear conscience is more valuable than wealth.
Evil in people does not go away when they get buried.
No matter how much care is taken, someone will always be misled.
It is not what is he, but what has he.
What is in the stomach carries what is in the head.
The wit of one man, the wisdom of many.
Your first care must be the care of your own heart.
January hoeing fills the basket.
Old brag is a good dog, but hold fast is better.
"More law, less justice." (Cicero, De officiis I, 10, 33)
Much law, little justice.
It is better to keep a wolf out of the fold than to trust drawing his teeth and talons after he shall have entered.
Mother sets aside and the cat eats.
And old rat is a brave rat.
The beggar is not afraid of the drawbacks of being rich.
Even if an animal comes to you for protection, you give it sanctuary.
All's not lost that's in danger.
Lies are accepted once, not twice.
Do not keep your tongue under your belt.
Being hospitable is more important than attending synagogue service early in the morning.
He who has a bad name is half hanged.
Be the master of your will and the slave of your conscience.
Corn him well he'll work the better.
Sleeping people can't fall down.
When the bed breaks, there is the ground to lie on.
By night all cats are black.
Comfort is not known if poverty does not come before it.
Drink and frankfurters for a dime; kill a man before his time.
Good take heed doth surely speed.
Beat the iron while it is hot.
Oh, oh, oh! three times I say it, who falls into poverty loses his friends.
Treat the lesser as you would have the greater treat you.
Avoid the company of a liar.
Food is delicious when one is hungry.
Better have a bad ass than be your own ass.
You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod, and the horse with a whip and spurs.
Adam must have an Eve to blame for his faults.
Do not employ handsome servants.
Even immortals are not immune to fate.
work for engagement of your daughter, but don't work for engagement of your son.
The child looks everywhere and often sees nought, the old man, sitting on the ground, sees everything.
Laughter is the best medicine.
I grew up knowing it's wrong to have more than you need. It means you're not taking care of your people.
The most friendly fortune trips up your heels.
To one who has a pie in the oven you may give a bit of your cake.
Wickedness with beauty is the devil's hook baited.
Human nature is the same all the world over.
Be sure not to owe anything to the rich, and don't lend anything to the poor.
Who eats lying on his side will commit ten sins, who eats lying on his back will commit seven sins.
Let him attack who will; the strong wait.
Force not favours on the unwilling.
He who is master of his thirst is master of his health.
Prosperity improves one's personality, adversity cripples it.
God did not give wings to scorpions.
The ear is the road to the heart.
No sweet without some sweat.
You pay attention to your fek'lhr and I will pay attention to mine.
He suld hae a langshankit spune that wad sup kail wi the deil.
Sodom apples outwardly fair, ashes at the core.
As long as the sun shines one does not ask for the moon.
Women are as beautiful as flowers when they are forty years old.
Your secret is your captive.
Nothing ventured, nothing won.
Young bamboo trees are easy to bend.
Love is like war, begin when you like and leave off when you can.
Danger and delight grow on one stalk.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
When a blind man dies, he is praised as having beautiful eyes.
Hope is the physician of each misery.
Once conquered - always a traitor.
Who wakes up early, Lord God provides him.
When difficulties are overcome they begin blessing.
What a sad basket, leaving and returning empty.
The salt of patience seasons everything.
If you can't hold on to the horse's mane then don't try to hang on to its tail.
You cannot pull a fish out of the pond without work.
A family name is not cooked and eaten, one's life is the thing.
The poor are excused from washing with soap.
Though wisdom is good in the beginning, it is better at the end.
If you wish to know the mind of a man, listen to his words.
Cheap things are not good, good things are not cheap.
Fish bite best on a golden hook.
Near the church far from God.
We've arrived, and to prove it we're here.
Sleep is the excuse of sleep.
Nodding the head does not row the boat.
Without the aid of the divine, man cannot walk even an inch.
The only real equality is in the cemetery.
He that woos a widow must woo her day and night.
Death considers not the fairest forehead.
If you want bread go to Agrigento, if you want pasta go to Licata, ask for money from the people in Aci, oil and sumac from the Terminesi.
At the game's end we shall see who gains.
When the beer goes in the wits go out.
He who knows the road can ride full trot.
The citizen is at his business before the sun rises.
Where the heart is willing it will find a thousand ways, but where it is unwilling it will find a thousand excuses.
The dog barks, the caravan passes.
The best thing God did was to make one day follow another.
To-morrow we will credit it, not to-day.
Time and straw make medlars ripe.
The mother keeps on caring for her daughter while the daughter keeps on craving for her husband.
Even if the truth is buried for centuries, it will eventually come out and thrive.
Sue a beggar and catch a louse.
So ends all earthly glory.
Feign death and the bull will leave you.
To serve a mean man may not be profitable.
Freezes like a flea on the snow.
The cask savours of the first fill.
The better the day, the better the deed.
A country can be conquered from the back of a horse but may not be ruled in the same manner.
Kind words will unlock an iron door.
A little too late, is much too late.
Where shall the ox go, and not have to plough?
A contented ass enjoys a long life.
It is easy to push a cart drawn by twelve oxen.
It's difficult to draw pure water from a dirty well.
Don't praise the day until it is evening.
When all fruits fail welcome haws.
When the plough enters a house, so does the condition of the family become vile.
A lean fee is a fit reward for a lazy clerk.
Who carries ever worst shoes than a shoemaker's wife?
Fret today, regret tomorrow.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth, the mouth of a wise man is in his heart.
The blow falls more lightly when it is anticipated.
Nothing is ever well done in a hurry, except flying from the plague or from quarrels, and catching fleas.
A broom is sturdy because its strands are tightly bound.
Beware the man of one book.
When the shadow of a tree is bent, straighten the tree, not the shadow.
It is an easy task to improve upon an invention.
A fox is in trouble because of his own pelt.
By the time the fool has learned to play the game, the players have dispersed.
A diamonds father is coal, yet it regards itself as upper-class.
Blood will have blood.
If the winter doesn't winter, and the summer doesn't summer, the farmstead will be in trouble.
A good surgeon must have a hawk's eye, a lion's heart and a woman's hand.
Joyfulness is half your health.
Almost kills no man.
The land where the stones know you is worth more than the land where the people know you.
A speaker needs no tools.
Give orders, and do it yourself, and you will be rid of anxiety.
It's gradually that castles are built.
When there is poverty, loyalty is suspect.
Send a fool to the market and a fool he will return.
Eating and drinking Shouldn't keep us from thinking.
Better a lean accord than a hefty sentence.
Cat patting leads to hump raising.
It's a bad hound that's not worth the whistling.
There is no beast so savage but sports with its mate.
As a thing is viewed, so it appears.
To promise and give nothing is comfort to a fool.
Halfway is twelve miles when you have fourteen miles to go.
Better wait on the cook than the doctor.
Friends are thieves of time. (17th century)
The one who shows off himself in every place will one day search for where to hide.
Learning makes a good man better and a bad man worse.
Some people are masters of money, and some people are slaves of it.
Do not leave to morning the business of evening.
A man's wealth may be superior to him.
He builds a castle by demolishing a country.
He that is long giving knows not how to give.
If you have the moon, ignore the stars.
Eating makes crumbs.
Your friend lends and your enemy asks for payment.
Overseas, a cow a quarter of kopeck, but a rouble to ship.
Peace is worth buying.
Quhiles the hawk hes, and whiles he hunger hes.
Dont sell the skin, until you have shot the bear.
He that spares vice wrongs virtue.
Sitting on the fence.
Without History, No Life.
Buying on credit is robbing next year's crop.
No one truly knows a nation until one has been inside its jails.
Go to bed without supper, you will rise without debt.
A kingdom is lost for want of a shoe.
At the beginning of january, take the bull to fields of heather.
A heavy cauldron takes long to boil.
Everything has its beauty but not everyone sees it.
Do you speak English?
A message is given to many, but those who are meant to understand, understand.
A patient person has all the wealth that there is in this world.
When a monkey doesn't get a banana, he eats chillies.
Partinico is a good town, good wine and low costs.
The bitter heart eats its owner.
Do today what you want ro postpone until tomorrow.
A clever master turns even a loss into a gain.
One daughter helps to marry the other.
He that stumbles and falls not, mends his pace.
The giant tree grows from a grain.
If age and experience came at birth, We would have neither youth nor mirth.
Without grace, beauty is an unbaited hook.
What you spend, you have.
Take the goods the gods provide.
More hair than tit, like a mountain heifer.
Sickness shows us what we are.
That suit is best that best fits me.
What might not happen in a year might happen in an instant.
Honey is not for the ass's mouth.
There are three things that have to be done quickly: burying the dead, opening the door for a stranger, and fixing your daughter's wedding.
At the end of the work you may judge of the workmen.
Every misfortune is a blessing.
To marry is to halve your rights and double your duties.
Give neither counsel or salt till you are asked for it.
That which is stamped a penny will never be a pound.
No price is too low for a bear or too high for a bull.
Don't be afraid of he who's loud and noisy, be afraid of he who's head is down.
He who does many bad deeds can expect a big one in return.
Speak when you are spoken to.
While life yet lasts, laughter and molasses.
A party of two is that of God; of three of the king; of four is of the devil.
The gardener's dog neither eats greens not lets any one else eat them.
When a rat swims with a frog, it dies of cold.
Carve the peg only after studying the hole.
If you go a tump-a-foot dance, you must dance tump-a-foot.
Honours change manners.
A servant and a cock must be kept but one year.
One who looks for a friend without faults will have none.
When a liar speaks the truth, he is sick.
When a drunken man meets a mad man, he learns the difference between being merely drunk and being truly mad.
The devil is not so ugly as he is painted.
Wine divulges truth.
It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
Innocent actions carry their warrant with them.
Add frost to snow.
There is no ivory in the mouth of a dog.
When the horse dies, dismount.
A busy mother makes slothful daughters.
Many people count other people's faults and ignore their own.
An old cat will not learn how to dance.
No man is content with his lot.
If two men claim your help, and one is your enemy, help him first.
The evil is dreaded by men but not heaven; the kind-hearted is cheated by mortals but not God.
He who covers you discovers you.
Too err is human.
Blood vessels are not cleaned with blood.
May your neighbors respect you, Trouble neglect you, The angels protect you, And heaven accept you.
Three things drive a man out of doors: smoke, dropping water, and a shrew.
Call not a surgeon before you are wounded.
Reason not with the great, 'tis a perilous gate.
Better the devil you know (than the one you don't).
As you see yourself, I once saw myself; as you see me now, you will be seen.
He ought not to complain of the sea who returns to it a second time.
The grove of the hear is not laid open.
He saved his ears, but lost his head.
Kill one to warn a hundred.
If one would not eat pounded yam for its own sake, one can still eat it for the sake of the soup that goes with it.
Foolish boys, wise men.
You cannot break through a wall with your forehead.
Speaking french is no proof of intelligence.
Don't demand your rights until you have the power.
Of yesterday's suffering.
Try out your shoes on your feet - gauge people against their misfortune.
Charity begins at home but should not end there.
Not to be considered queer conform to the crowd.
Return property to its owner, and your sleep will be peaceful.
Enough shovels of earth -- a mountain. Enough pails of water -- a river.
He who enters Fez with a rug, leaves with a money bag.
Heaven hath no rage like love to hatred turned, Nor Hell a fury like a woman scorned.
Remember, after the storm there will be a rainbow.
When you shoot a zebra in the black stripe, the white dies too; shoot it in the white and the black dies too.
A lawyer needs three bags: one full of papers, one full of money, and one full of patience.
Without business, debauchery.
Money doesn't come from singing.
A man may spit on his hand, and doe full ill.
Wait for time and lose time.
Good luck in business is like the froth on an ox's face.
Better a dinner of herbs with love than a stalled ox where hate is.
Who loves not women, wine, and song, remains a fool his whole life long.
No matter how angry a rat may be it will be eaten by a cat.
A meal without wine is like a day without sunshine.
As Maine goes, so goes the nation.
The more you ask how far you have to go, the longer your journey seems.
Better to stumble than make a slip of the tongue.
If you have, give; if you lack, seek.
Riches serve a wise man but command a fool.
A man in passion rides a mad horse.
Open your eyes and your ears when contracting, because the agreed upon circumstances mean a lot.
All that meal comes not from your own sack.
If you want peace, prepare justice.
Tell me who your friends are and i'll tell you who you are.
The old dog doesn't bark without reason.
A book is like a garden carried in the pocket.
Don't be too friendly with the clergy and don't fall out with them.
Shoemaker stick to your last.
Rob not, repent not.
They that burn you for a witch lose all their coals.
No one will steal it from you if they don't know you have it.
Who is so deaf or so blind as he that willfully will neither hear nor see?
The obliging fool is worse than an enemy.
Wine is the mirror of the mind.
If everybody said bread and cheese, you put your head down and die.
Haste is not strength.
To change and to do better are two different things.
He is washing the crow.
Stormy weather cannot stay all the time, the red sun will come out, too.
Let them whip me in the market-place, provided it be not known at home.
Sickness comes in like a horse and leaves like a snail.
Where the young know, is where they believe it's raining.
Fish and guests smell in three days.
A good lawyer, an evil neighbour.
If old age was the same as wisdom, any old donkey would be a celebrated Justice.
A bull went to impregnate a cow, and he came back a fetus.
Two cocks in one house, a cat and a mouse, an old man and young wife, are always in strife.
A guest mourner does not wail as though his heart is broken.
You cannot stop a whore, not even with a hundred horses.
One should strive to maintain one's honour.
If the dog hadn't stopped to rest, he'd have caught the rabbit.
Custom becomes law.
There is a remedy for everything, could men find it.
A man without a smiling face must not open a shop.
A stick is soon found to beat a dog.
You always lose.
An adult squatting sees farther than a child on top of tree.
Jealousy is a pain which eagerly seeks what causes pain.
Out of sight, out of langer.
If a man wants to grow a long tooth, he should have the lip to cover it.
Not every cloud brings rain.
He ran out from under a leaking roof and sat in the rain.
The grey mare is the better horse.
Riches cause arrogance; poverty, meekness.
Straitened circumstances.
What's everybody's work is nobody's work.
Sulks like a perch in the fish trap.
He that wants the kernel must crack the nut.
Good form is fragile.
Hell shared with a sage is better than paradise with a fool.
After the war, aid.
There is no worse robber than a bad book.
Those away from the battlefield boast about their swords.
Everything new is beautiful.
Live long and prosper.
The wind effects leaves, while violence men.
One camel does not make fun of another camel's hump.
Never ask pardon before you are accused.
A nickel will get you on the subway, but garlic will get you a seat.
The power of a leopard resides in its claws.
Where the hedge is lowest men jump over.
If the goat says it will become a sheep, there will always be black spots on its body.
When madame drops her cup of tea it makes no noise.
God heals, and the physician takes the fee.
Unles we change direction, we are likely to wind up where we are headed.
The keys at the girdle, the dog in the larder.
Who makes excuses without being accused, shows his guilt.
Let the time pass and the shadow stretchǃ.
Slowly one goes far.
The heart is not a knee that can be bent.
You learn how to cut down trees cutting them down.
Help your brother's boat across, and your own will reach the shore.
The strictness of the teacher is better to bear than the prejudice of the father.
It's when it's small that the cucumber gets warped.
You will catch more flies with a spoonful of honey than with a gallon of vinegar.
Paddle your own canoe.
The miserly man is like a fattened ox: he will give of his fat only when he has been deprived of his life.
A club drenched in blood easily finds its mark.
Poverty makes thieves, like love makes poets.
He who does as he likes has no headache.
Few desires, happy life.
Your health comes first; you can always hang yourself later.
Well goes the case when wisdom counsels.
A person moves up while water runs down.
Life is a bridge. Cross over it, but build no house on it.
A scorpion never stung me but I cured myself with its grease.
Not even a God can bring back the leaves that have fallen.
Twenty years a child; twenty years running wild; twenty years a mature man -- and after that, praying.
One son is no son, two sons is no son, but three sons is a son.
With gold I can buy things; with thinking I can understand things.
Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee.
The strong will defeat one, the knowledgeable a thousand.
If it's not true, it's a good story.
To sail is necessary, survive is not necessary.
Birds agree when flying down, but do not agree when flying up.
An old broom knows the corners of the house.
Lies have short legs.
Short love, long sighs.
At the end the Gloria is chanted.
Ride on, but look before you.
They understand one another like thieves in a fair.
Between hammer and anvil.
God save you from a man who has but one business.
Promise is debt.
Regretting the past is like chasing after the wind.
Friendship, we call it friendship, but without sincerity.
He that picks up all sorts of wood, soon gets an armful.
Boast to a stranger, complain only to your friends.
Hurriedness is not necessarily the daughter of foolishness, and delay is not necessarily the daughter of cowardice.
Where gold avails, argument fails.
One who doesn't appreciate the apple, won't appreciate the orchard.
One cannot learn to swim in a field.
To extend your life by a year, take one less bite each meal.
One does not burn a blanket to get rid of a flea.
The less things change, the more they remain the same.
Waken not sleeping dogs.
A madman drops a stone in a well, but forty wise men cannot take it out.
A good swimmer is not safe against drowning.
A building of sand falls as you build it.
Do not measure up the wood before the tree is cut down.
Every season brings its joy.
I today, you tomorrow.
A thriftless woman burns the entire candle looking for a match.
Whoever falls sick of folly, is long in getting cured.
Who preaches to the deaf, wastes the sermon.
Little kens the wife that sits by the fire, how the wind blows cold in hurle-burle swyre.
Much never cost little.
Great cry and little wool.
Loving with the eyes only, has blinded a lot of fools.
A lie has short legs.
You must kill the hornets to get rid of the nest.
Time saved at the cost of an accident is no saving.
If you want to know how the true story goes, wait till the arguments start.
Eat the wind and swallow bitterness.
When every man gets his own the devil gets nothing.
A person's worst enemy can't wish on him what he can think up himself.
A bald-headed man will not grow hair by getting excited.
If they are roses they will blossom, if they are thorns, they will prick.
Though last, not least in love.
The earthen pot must keep clear of the brass kettle.
Talking a mile a minute.
By day think of your own faults, by night think of the faults of others.
A skinny pig is better than a fat chicken.
Company in distress makes trouble less.
You easily forget the eyes that don't see you any more.
The best part of happiness lies is in the secret heart of a lover.
As we grow older our bad qualities make us younger.
Hit them hard and hit them fast.
The mother bears the daughter and the neighbor marries her off.
Kings have many ears and many eyes too.
Love one another and do not strive for another's undoing.
Love is never without jealousy.
Stop, look and listen.
When coins rattle, philosophers are silent.
Eat, and small ills disappear.
Who grudges his blood to a blade had better earn his living behind the plow.
Kindness breaks no bones.
Knowledge without wisdom is a load of books on the back of an ass.
He who lies, hangs from a gallows - he who does not, hangs twice.
Where force prevails, right perishes.
A travelled man hath leave to lye.
That government is best which governs least.
Credit is better than ready money.
You must cut your coat according to your cloth.
Affairs sleep soundly when fortune is present.
The man on his feet carries off the share of the man sitting down.
No living man all things can.
Clothes put on while running come off while running.
He that hes twa huirds, is able to get the third.
The less power a man has, the more he likes to use it.
If there are two cooks in one house, the soup is either too salty or too cold.
It is good for somebody as well as bad for someone else.
He who sleeps cannot catch fish.
You can better drink from a small well with soft water than from the salty sea.
Silence is the answer to many things.
One scabby sheep infects a thousand sheep.
Free things decrease one's intelligence.
He boasts, with foreign feathers.
Bend with the tree that will bend with you.
The hen flies not far unless the cock flies with her.
Ask thy purse what thou should spend.
Don't dirty the place where you have eaten.
May the crazy not die to make people laugh.
Take a hair of the dog that bit you.
The fish requires salt.
An ounce of luck is better than a pound of misery.
The ground is always frozen for the lazy swine.
He's a fool who earns a square meal.
You cannot know the defects of a house you have not slept in.
Covetousness bursts the bag.
A lizard can't be a snake even without its limbs.
To lend your hatchet and get your forest cut down.
Darg-flea tell him pickeny him mustn't say him dead till him ketch pon finger nail.
You must die for your own sacred conviction.
Supposing doesn't fill the grain basket; 'if' doesn't fill the larder.
Mice play around, when they don't smell the cat.
Luck sometimes visits a fool, but it never sits down with him.
A good bee will not go to a drooping flower.
Christmas on the balcony, easter by the fire.
The third time tells the truth.
A man without honor smells worse than a corpse.
Another's misfortune does not cure my pain.
The nail that sticks its head up is the one that gets hit.
Rather an ass that carries than a horse that throws.
Lust of power is the strongest of all passions.
God save me from one who does not drink.
It is the same moon that wanes today that will be the full moon tomorrow.
He does not guard himself well who is not always on his guard.
A hen does not break her own eggs.
The teeth of a dog do not lock together.
Study the past if you would divine the future.
Were you at the wedding, Molly? No, mother, but the bride was very fine.
A debt is still unpaid, even if forgotten.
Snuff at a wake is fine if there's noboby sneezing over the snuff box.
I never saw an oft-removed tree, nor yet an oft-removed family, that throve so well as one that settled be.
If you befriend a mosquito it will still attack you at night.
The scalded dog fears hot water, and afterwards, cold.
Taking out without putting in, soon comes to the bottom.
At length the fox turns monk.
He who has no enemies also has no friends.
Mother's love is ever in its spring.
Better finger off, nor ay warking.
Only a monkey understands a monkey.
May waters drench peasants and lords or gentlemen, as many of them as it encounters.
He is but a poor husbandman, who sows in sand.
Without life there is nothing.
Apples taste sweetest when they are going.
Necessity teaches the naked woman to spin.
Fair flowers do not remain long by the wayside.
A big crowd, but not a human being in sight.
Friends are flowers in life's garden.
A cow that has no tail should not try to chase away flies.
A magpie brought it on its tail.
Bought wit is best.
For a ducat brother will sell brother.
When a man curses his own child it is a terrible thing.
If you wish/ask, wish/ask for more.
While travelling, the load settles in place.
He lives long who lives well.
Snake in the grass.
He that neglects time, time will neglect.
Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark.
Jealousy is a pain seeking its cause.
What bread men break is broken to them again.
A man is as old as he feels himself to be.
The first step binds one to the second.
A soldier on furlough lets his shirt hang out of his trousers.
English is spoken, American understood.
How can the person who is eating dates prohibit the eating of dates? It's better to be a free dog than a caged lion.
There is no worse fruit than that which never ripens.
Better half a donkey than half a camel.
The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully.
By valor and arms. [Virtute et armis.].
When an elder speaks, be silent and listen.
Out of debt, out of danger.
Everyone knows what's cooking in their pot.
If the bride can't dance, she blames the musicians.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself.
A day without work can yield a night without sleep.
Good people are gentle.
The mother of mischief is na mair nor a midgewing.
Even the colours of a chameleon are for survival not beauty.
Good deeds never leave home, bad ones echo a thousand miles.
Where passion is high, reason is low.
What is lighter than a feather? Dust. What lighter than dust? Wind. What lighter than the wind? A harlot. What lighter than a harlot? Nothing.
If a dead tree falls, it carries with it a live one.
Rules are made to be broken.
The harm done by an elephant is like that done by a storm, or by the government.
All that glitters is not gold, nor all that sparkles silver.
When the mouse laughs at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
The devil is wiser not because he's the devil, but because he's old.
The garlic said to the onion: 'you stink.'
He who keeps his mouth shut doesn't get any flies to eat.
Drive your business, don't let it drive you.
Barren corn makes bitter bread.
Whoever is fond of cream should should take the cow around with him.
A clever head, but given to foolishness.
Go to bed with the lamb, and rise with the lark.
Even a tin knocker will shine on a dirty floor.
The cunning men do not deal with each other.
Distant hills look beautiful; near ones are ugly.
He who comes late gets bones for lunch.
Eating much of sweetness you do not know if it be sweet anymore.
The monkey will never wash with the same water twice.
Silence is also speech.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Always be patient with the rich and powerful.
A man does not seek his luck, luck seeks its man.
The unfaithful woman has remorse, the faithful one has regret.
The best laid plans of mice and men often go astray.
No pillows so soft as God's Promise.
Who throws a stone at the sky, it falls back on his head.
Old age is a disease that you die from.
He guards it, him like his eyesight.
The horseshoe that clatters wants a nail.
Threatened folks eat bread.
Don't walk behind me; i may not lead. don't walk in front of me; i may not follow. walk beside me that we may be as one.
Prune the vines on the January moon if you want to fill the casks.
If you're not a King don't make new laws; leave the world the way you find it.
Politeness travels on short fares.
The one without a sword gets humiliated.
Misery loves company.
If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
A good deed bears interest.
Beauty is skin deep.
When a heart is on fire, sparks always fly out of the mouth.
He who gets annoyed of darkness ends up knocking himself everywhere.
Old truths, old laws, old friends, old books, and old wine are best.
One marriage is never celebrated but another grows out of it.
Who knows nothing in his thirtieth year, is nothing in his fortieth, has nothing in his fiftieth; learns nothing, is nothing, and comes to nothing.
If your head is wax, do not walk in the sun.
The best pears are eaten by the pigs.
For the sake of the flowers, the weeds are watered.
One hand full of money is stronger than two hands full of truth.
God gives to those who get up early.
It is a double pleasure to deceive the deceiver.
At the end of the song comes payment.
Let a dog get at a dish of honey, and he will jump in with both legs.
Be careful of your enemy once and of your friend a thousand times, for a double crossing friend knows more evil.
The tar of my country is better than the honey of others.
Need excavates the trick.
Shadow of a stick canot protect one from the sun.
Crows everywhere are equally black.
The peony is beautiful, yet it is supported by a stalk.
He has caught the leg of God.
He who is a guest in two houses, starves.
In business you need two Jews for one Greek, two Greeks for one Syrian and two Syrians for one Armenian.
Do not laugh at the fallen; you may find slippery roads ahead.
It is not easy to know your butter in another man's cabbage.
Children tell in the highway what they hear by the fireside.
Better one hazel grouse in the bag, than ten on the branch.
There is no partridge which does not know its own way of scratching.
No one can do nothing and no one can do everything.
Affectation is a greater enemy to the face than smallpox.
A borrowed fiddle does not finish a tune.
There was never a scabby sheep in a flock that didn't like to have a comrade.
Don't halt before you are lame.
If you ask for directions rudely, you might end up a long distance from your destination.
Marriages are not as they are made, but as they turn out.
Welcome is the best dish on the table.
Teach your descendants the two proper roads - literature and farming.
A thief thinks every man steals.
Pemba does not run away fro a small shower.
If you do not sow in the spring you will not reap in the autumn.
They that smell least, smell best.
A good bee never lands on a fallen flower.
It hit a nail into his head.
There's nobody can prevent you getting into heaven, but there are many always ready to give you a shove into hell.
Who has not suffered from wounds will laugh at scars.
Full vessels give the least sound.
The dog that minds not your whistle is good for nothing.
A fast day is the eve of a feast day.
Easy come, easy go.
Even silence is an answer.
The thief that is not caught is a king.
To whom you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.
I know my price. (William Shakespeare)
Prosperity teaches one, and poverty puts one to shame.
It takes time to build castles. Rome wan not built in a day.
"with all my heart!” says the boor, when he must.
An old broom knows the dirty corners best.
The one who has had no experience of evil cannot know good.
Of brothers-in-law and red dogs few are good.
You are a sweet skin buckey.
A brave man who climbs trees is food for their roots.
Those who do not find time for exercise will have to find time for illness.
He sells the bird on the branch.
An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow.
Abundance does not spread; famine does.
If your books are not read, your descendants will be ignorant.
The men are the wool of the tribe, but the women are the ones who weave the pattern.
They whom got shy, died.
Who has shoes does not fear thorns.
One for blackbird, one for the crow, One for the cutworm, and one to grow.
What the sober man keeps in his heart, is on the tongue of the drunkard.
Continue to do good, and heaven will come down to you.
Time has no respect for beauty.
Fish must swim thrice.
You flirt with a widow, but do you know how her husband died?
He who injures with the sword will be finished by the sword.
There are many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
The brother or sister who does not respect the traditions of the elders will not be allowed to eat with the elders.
New broom sweep clean, but de ole broom know de corner.
Without favour, art is like a windmill without wind.
There are seventy ways of interpreting the bible.
Until the nail is hit, it doesn't believe in the hammer.
Who has got a good wife has found a good thing.
A new broom sweeps well.
A tiger cannot beat a crowd of monkeys.
Keep counsel of thyself first.
The crow was killed by the storm -- "He died by my curse," says the owl.
Sorrow is to the soul what the worm is to wood.
He is as good a Catholic as Duke Alva's dog; who ate flesh in Lent.
Grass is greener in other pastures.
A child is what you put into him.
A drunken man is always dry.
In a large church no priest dies.
Hasty speed don't oft succeed.
The tongue of the fool is always long.
Suffer and expect.
Under my cloak I kill the king.
Between the beginning and the end there is always a middle.
Pride goes before the fall.
An empty ear holds its head upright.
Who lies that also steals.
Snake to snake, see the leg.
Do not steal a loaf from him that kneads and bakes.
The love of money and the love of learning rarely meet.
One can lose four and eight.
Jest with your equals.
When you are in a hurry, the horse holds back.
If you had teeth of steel, you could eat iron coconuts.
Nothing is ill said if it is not ill taken.
Children when they are little make parents fools, when they are great they make them mad.
Falsehood travels and grows.
Two heads are better than one.
If you yourself can do it, attend no other's help or hand.
One finger canot kill a louse.
The best answer to anger is silence.
Flattery is the best persuader of people.
Don't try to buy fish in the dry towns.
A shy woman is worth a city, a shy man is worth a goat.
Old shoes wear best.
Do not remove a fly from your friend's forehead with a hatchet.
The absent are always to blame.
One misfortune comes on the back of another.
A hen carried far is heavy.
Rather one week without eating than Saturday without sauna.
Merchant's goods are ebb and flood.
Better no law, than law not enforced.
All receive advice. Only the wise profit from it.
Hope won't be cut from the soul that has not expired.
one may become the devil's brother in order to cross the bridge.
When a door opens not to your knock, consider your reputation.
Blaming the wrong reason/cause or creating a scapegoat.
The farmer is a born philosopher, the aristocrat has to learn how.
Cards play and gamblers brag.
A cat will teach her young ones all the tricks, except how to jump backwards.
‘Every man to his fancy, and me to my own fancy,' said the old woman when she kissed her cow.
Bread and cheese is gude to eat when folk can get nae ither meat.
A woman can beat the devil.
If the wind comes from an empty cave, there is a reason.
The river is crossed where it is shallow.
Giving is fishing.
A surgeon tries his experiments on the heads of orphans.
Poverty does not destroy virtue nor wealth bestow it.
Example is the greatest of all seducers.
He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.
Watching what you say is your best friend.
He who gets a name for early rising can stay in bed until midday.
A good year is apparent from the spring.
At Taormina every climb has its descent.
If chickens were judges, cockroaches would be sentenced.
If you fall into a pit, Providence is under no obligation to come and look for you.
Property is robbery.
Kill a cow to donate shoes.
The iron never takes advice from the hammer.
Everybody regrets not what he leaves but what he does not find.
He who only thinks about what is in his belly is worth less than what comes out of it.
Sympathy doesn't provide food, but it makes hunger more endurable.
All keys hang not at one woman's girdle.
With talking the cheese ship won't move.
If you have decided to eat a dog, eat a fat one.
Once a priest, always a priest.
A man without money is like a boat without sails.
Old age cures us of our youth.
A little subtleness is better than a lot of force.
If you lie down with a man, you may rise up as a woman.
The full belly does not believe in hunger.
Who pleasure gives shall joy receive.
They that dance must pay the fiddler.
Between husband and wife, one doesn't put the spoon.
It takes sweat to work on things, but it only takes saliva to criticize things.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
Chastise one that is worthless, and he will presently hate you.
To lie about a far country is easy.
Eagles catches nae fleas.
It is easier to stem the brook than the river.
Don't take the straight path or the winding path.
There aren't enough swear-words in the English language, so now I'll have to call you perkeleen vittupää just to express my disgust and frustration with this crap.
Envy is left-handed praise.
A silent man is not a conquered man.
He who fixes his mind much on water ends up not drinkink it.
He who spekes ill of someone close to you in your presence sends you to tell him so.
Laugh better he who laughs last.
Every river knows where its water would not be soaked up into the earth, and that is where it flows past.
It takes two days to learn everything about a man; to know animals you will need more time.
Swallow a date with its stone.
Home, sweet home.
Silence is a cure for grief.
If three people tell you that you are drunk, lie down.
He must rise betimes who would please everybody.
It is never winter in the land of hope.
A good vineyard provides bread, wine, and firewood.
Every one sees his smart coat, no one sees his shrunken belly.
There is a time to speak and a time to be silent.
If you choose to lie down with dogs, you must be prepared to wake up with fleas.
Parsley seed goes nine times to the Devil.
When the pig has had a bellyful it upsets the trough.
Make every bargain clear and plain, that none may afterwards complain.
Women are as fickle as April weather.
A hundred years of wrong do not make an hour of right.
Every beginning is hard.
Money is a good servant but a had master.
The best fighting is often against yourself.
The gluttony of the monk and the appetite of the priest.
He has hit the udder between the horns.
A bow too much bent will break.
An artful bird can be trapped in a rotten cage.
While the grass grows the horse starves.
A little debt makes a debtor, a great one an enemy.
He bites his tongue who speaks in haste.
Play will get its place, said the old hag from Tuulos when a pig took her nose.
Fire that is surrounded by elders cannot burn you.
Thinking is not knowing.
The woman like the hen, gets lost if she walks too far.
Poor relations have little honour.
An indulgent mother makes a sluttish daughter.
To fish behind the net.
The highest spoke in fortune's wheel may soon turn lowest.
The strength of the crocodile is in the water.
Ill-matched horses draw badly.
Truth speaks even though the tongue were dead.
Evil gotten, evil spent.
Life is just as long as the time it takes for someone to pass by a window.
One who seeks no friends is his own enemy.
Everybody is the architect oh is own fortune.
Don't sell the fur before shooting the bear.
An old ox will find a shelter for himself.
Many scruple to spit in church, and afterwards defile the altar.
Well water is not an enemy of spring water.
Who talks a lot at the table will leave it hungry.
First friends, then broken heads.
I was wise once, when I was born I cried.
Don't be too bold, or you will burn your eyes; but don't be too slow, or you will lose your share.
A beautiful face is a letter of recommendation.
The greater the man, the greater the crime.
Ye're like the miller's dog--ye lick your lips ere the pock be opened.
Solitude is enjoyed only when one is at peace with oneself.
A candidate promises more cheese than bread.
The pleasure of doing good is the only one that will not wear out.
Don't poop in a field and don't talk in a forest.
The cat has leave to look at the queen and the queen has leave to shoot it.
As a daughter grows up she is like smuggled salt.
Did you ever hear an ass play on a harp?
It's better to flee and stay alive than to die and become a hero.
Self-praise is nno praise at all.
The wolf and the dog agree about the goat - which together they eat.
F air words never fed a friar.
Alexander the great wasn't tall.
The blessed knife eats of the meat of the ‘kinandu'.
As demure as an old whore at a christening.
If pride were an art, how many doctors we should have.
You dance better with a full belly than with a new dress.
Ask a silly question and you get a silly answer.
No joy without alloy.
Looks like throwing knives.
The fowl perspires, but the feathers do not allow us to see the perspiration.
Conscience is the voice of the soul.
If you do not enter the tiger's cave, you will not catch its cub.
"How well you live makes a difference, not how long." (Seneca)
If you eat it up at supper, you cannot have it for breakfast.
He who hurries cannot walk with dignity.
Love's quarrels oft in pleasing concord end.
One man may steal a horse while another may not look over the hedge.
A woman is a fortress, a man her prisoner.
Success and rest don't sleep together.
The mud that you throw will fall on your own head.
The peasant will not cross himself before it begins to thunder.
Sweet tongues buy horses on credit.
A thief and darkness are friends.
Don't throw your blanket in the fire just because it has one flea in it.
No matter how close the ear is to the eye they can't see each other.
A beaten one carries an unbeaten.
Promising is one thing, performing another.
A bird with fire on its tail burns its own nest.
I am dead. It is as if everybody were dead. Let the man left behind shut the door if he wants to.
Secret gifts are openly rewarded.
There are more thieves than gibbets.
What a prostitute earns she calls presents from her husband's friends.
One knife whets another.
Не that promises too much means nothing.
If you meet a red-haired woman, you'll meet a crowd.
You may cook in small pots aw well as in large ones.
You can shear a sheep many times but you can skin him only once.
Big thunder, little rain.
Romeo must die in order to save the love.
When you have three daughters, you sleep with the door open.
The secret of patience is doing something else in the meantime.
Found a nice tree when your axe broken.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Listen to people, but keep your own wits.
You can beat anyone if you have a golden slipper.
No names, no pack-drill.
He who loves a woman is a nephew of the sun.
We are not disposed to study much after heavy meals.
To make an elephant out of a mosquito.
Nothing is lost on a journey by stopping to pray or to feed your horse.
One string is good enough to a good musician.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows. He breathes, but does not live.
Everything cannot be hung on one nail.
When silent men speak they speak to the purpose.
If you have driven a vehicle in Moratumulla, you can drive in any road in Sri Lanka.
They are two hands on one belly.
The tracks of the elephant cancels those of the antelope.
Don't use up your arrows before you go to battle.
Even truth may be bitter.
Love without pain is not to be found anywhere.
Money hides in the tiger's ear.
Life at court is often a short cut to hell.
A small fire that warms you is better than a large one that burns you.
You can best shoot an eagle with an arrow made from its own feathers.
When the alms is too large, even a saint will be suspicious.
Each smith has his custom.
Happy nations have no history.
Earth is more precious than gold.
The old people are treasures to us.
A heavy shower is soon over.
The forest has ears.
There will be trouble if the cobbler starts making pies.
What is taken for oneself is usually not a small piece.
What is given by God, can't be lacking.
A pain in the foot is soon forgotten -- a pain in the head is not.
Many a defect is seen in the poor man.
Put not thy hand between the bark and the tree.
The scalded dog fears cold water.
Drink wine and let water go to the mill.
If a caged bird isn't singing for love, it's singing in a rage.
Be truly what thou wouldst be thought to be.
A creaking cart goes long on the wheels.
May you have kindness in your heart, a plump woman in your furs, and seal meat in you larder.
The Power fellow will have another day.
When the soul hungers, even bitter things taste sweet.
Alcohol will preserve anything but a secret.
Drop by drop the lake is drained.
You cackle in our place but you lay your eggs at someone else's place.
Look not out for dead men's shoes.
A dead man has neither relations nor friends.
In the forehead and the eye, the lecture of the mind doth lie.
Every tear has a smile behind it.
The cock goes to town for only four days and returns home a peacock.
The issue of all contention is uncertain.
If you live in Rome, don't quarrel with the Pope.
Foolishness first, then wisdom.
As one makes his bed, so he sleeps his dream.
Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
The persons we eat with are the ones to kills us.
A ridiculous accident has often been the making of many.
The old nightingale sings better.
Softly, barber, the water scalds.
Dress up a stick and you get a doll.
He who drinks, dies; he who does not drink, dies as well.
A lazy man works twice.
Who is born a fool is never cured.
Ye seek hot water under cold ice.
Beauty without wisdom is like a flower in the mud.
Every hooked beak is maintained by prey.
Though my present be small, my love goes with it.
When the wine is in the man, the wit is in the can.
If blood is spilt on you before breakfast, you will shed blood before nightfall.
He who praises the past blames the present.
Try to save the dead horse as if it is still alive.
If we dig precious things from the land, we will invite disaster.
When hunger gets inside you, nothing else can.
Better poor on land that rich at sea.
After three years useless things are useful too.
He must have plenty of butter, who would stop everybody's mouth.
God lets man sink but not be drowned.
Everyone drinks with their mouth.
If you are a mouse don't follow frogs.
You reap the crop of another.
The most difficult master is the servant who became master.
Men in office must work hard.
Goes in the left ear, goes out the right ear.
You may light another's candle with your own without loss.
All sunshine makes a desert.
A little Learning is a dangerous thing.
We're alive from lack of a shroud.
This person is perfectly suited for the job.
The monk gets married to please his friend.
The fly that plays too long in the candle, singes his wings at last.
A rat who gnaws at a cat's tail invites destruction.
Men have thought about their marriage a whole year long - and it lasts but one night.
Tie your camel and rely on God.
A willing helper comes without asking.
The beauty of a woman becomes useless if there is no one to admire it.
Pigs may whistle, but they hae an ill mouth for't.
You hae been smelling the bung.
Falling is easier than rising.
If you go away, you can't expect people to keep your place for you.
Admonish your friends in private, praise them in public.
Revenge is a dish which is best served cold.
He knows enough who knows how to live and keep his own counsel.
Ask for advice, then use your head.
When the cup is fullest it is most difficult to carry.
Eating brings on your appetite.
Between the "yes” and "no” of a woman you can't place a pin.
A mother-in-law may be good, but she is better when mother earth covers her up.
A seat in the council is honour without profit.
He that dallies with his enemy gives him leave to kill him.
The rain follows after the forest.
The tree is known by its fruit.
The white penny will become useful in your dark days.
Where you saw wood, there the sawdust will fall.
Better a mouse in the pot than no meat at all.
Fate can be taken by the horns, like a goat, and pushed in the right direction.
Whatever your uncle gives you, take.
To remove a fly from a friend's forehead never use a hatchet.
Working on the land is better than praying in the desert.
On earth it's hard and heaven is far away.
Early childhood should be as happy and carefree as you can make it.
Who looks for a quarrel, finds a quarrel.
Laugh and show your ignorance.
In May the horse gets fat, but if he doesn't get fat it's better to ditch him.
Hell and destruction are never full.
Better be alone than in bad company.
The way to be safe is never to feel secure.
A ruler without a nation is like a flower without the sun.
Two dogs strive for a bone, and a third runs away with it.
The hare and the elephant don't travel well together.
It takes taste to account for taste.
Pull someone by the ears and his head will follow.
Money spent on brain is never spent in vain.
A good name is better than good perfume.
When battle approaches, when war arises, the plans of the gods, beloved by the gods, are destroyed.
He is good, only the devils are bad, for not carrying him away.
God will listen to you whatever cloak you wear.
There is mony a true tale tald in a jest.
An hour may destroy the work of a hundred years.
When there is nothing the church loses.
To the dog who has money, men say: my lord dog.
Clergymen's sons always turn out badly.
To go safely through the world you must have the eye of a falcon, the ear of an ass, the face of an ape, the mouth of a pig, the shoulders of a camel, and the legs of a deer.
One coward makes ten.
The bee gets honey from the same flower where the snake sucks her poison.
Have a close look at the mother and then marry her daughter.
A bad dancer always has trouble with his balls.
What the gods keep for the poor, no man can destroy.
One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor between them.
Is there no mean but fast or feast?
The end is the crown of any work.
Friendship is an empty word if it only works one way.
The porpoise always holds his nose up to the windward.
Seying goes good cheap.
The hunter who is tracking an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds.
The river is flat but the banks are steep.
There is no cure for vulgarity.
There are all honest men, but my cloak is not to be found.
A little impatience spoils great plans.
To see me and come live with me are two different things.
He who takes responsibility becomes the target of the people.
When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them.
Literal meaning: Give the dough to baker even if he eats half of it.
The money you dream about will not pay your bills.
All authors should prepare to encounter criticism.
A person can be as sweet as honey or as heavy as steel.
Manners maketh the man.
Though my father-in-law is a good man, I do not like a dog with a bell.
Forgive and regret much later.
Diamond cuts diamond.
He who hunts two hares at once, catches neither.
God hears things upside down.
Timing has a lot to do with the outcome of a rain dance.
Fear and love do not go together.
Nut and fig trees need to be pruned aggressively.
No problem is settled until it is settled right.
Dance in the sun, but turn your back to the clouds.
Touch a galled horse and he'll wince.
Men build houses; women build homes.
A little absence does a lot of good.
Never give advice unasked.
Young pigs grunt as as old pigs grunted before them.
The stumbling of a fabulous horse.
Who lives in exile finds that spring has no charm.
When there are two cooks, the soup becomes either salty or saltless.
Flattery makes friends and truth makes enemies.
He who gets close to a good tree, will have a good shade.
When there are two cooks, the soup will be either too salty or tasteless.
The unlucky are unlucky even if they hang a lantern on their head.
There is never a fish without a bone, and no man without faults.
The royal crown cures not the headache.
The world is wide to everyone.
By beating love decays.
Don't just take love, experience it.
Answer a fool according to his folly.
Romance/ without finance/ don't stand a chance.
Raised children, doubled work.
Love's merchandise is jealousy and broken faith.
A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return.
He has nothing who is not content with what he has.
A small family is soon provided for.
When a man begins to reason, he ceases to feel.
If you marry money the devil lays an egg in your storeroom.
A hit dog will hollow.
If you put in the work to sharpen the steel, it will eventually turn into needles.
Of two cowards, the one who finds the other out first has the advantage.
Even the stone you trip on is part of your destiny.
A diplomat should be yielding and supple as a creeper that can be bent but not broken.
When eating bamboo sprouts, remember the man who planted them.
Latinum lasts longer than lust.
What is impossible to change is best to forget.
A donkey decked in gold is better than an over-laden horse.
A father maintains ten children better than ten children one father.
The tongue is not statically smooth.
The sheep that is too tame is sucked by too many lambs.
The one who went to La Villa, lost his/her chair.
If peace reigns in the land, a nun can govern it.
To advise is not to compel.
Half a leap falls into the ditch.
A fool who knows he is a fool has a little intelligence, but a fool that thinks he is intelligent is really a fool.
Loans and debts make worry and frets.
An old man with a torn sleeve never dishonored anyone.
Counterfeit coin passes current at night.
Who seizes too much with his own hand, will have everything slip away and will hold nothing.
Heaven has a road, but no one travels it; Hell has no gate but men will dig to get there.
When two ageing good friends fight, it's because of an old grouch.
Every man is the king of his own beard.
A long tongue betokens a short hand.
Twixt the cup and the lip there's many a slip.
Drink a glass of wine after your soup and you will be stealing a ruble from the doctor.
Even in hell it is good to have friends.
Where there is a bone, there are dogs.
Wrang hearing makes wrang rehearsing.
He that hath a head of butter must not come near the oven.
"Experience is the best teacher." (i.e., "Practice makes perfect.")
Years know more than books.
Strike while your employer has a big contract.
There is no worse devil than a farmer who wants to be a gentleman.
When one dreams of a canoe, there will be no luck the next day.
I too can lead the geese to water when it rains.
The crooked bannock straightens the body.
Every elephant has to carry its own trunk around.
After victory, tighten your helmet chord.
He who has a trade may travel through the world.
On painting and fighting look aloof.
It takes many words to fill a sack.
A monkey dressed up is still a monkey.
The earth is not thirsty for the blood of the warriors but for the sweat of man's labor.
Gather rosebuds while you may.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge.
He that hurries will be late.
Fine words dress ill deeds.
Without the forest, there will be no more water.
An evil deed has a witness in the bosom.
He's digging his own grave.
God sends clothes to those with no proper figure, and bread to those with no teeth.
To a dog a bone has more value than a pearl.
If a rogue deceives me once, shame on him. If he deceives me twice, shame on me.
A lie travels round the world while truth is putting her boots on.
The cemeteries are filled with people who thought the world couldn't get along without them.
Don't undress a saint to dress the other.
The fire cannot be put out with your hands.
Conscience is as a thousand witnesses.
When children stand quiet, they have done some ill.
The endless saver always lives in poverty.
Of a thorn springs not a fig.
They that sow the wind, shall reap the whirlwind.
Love is as strong as death.
Seek the brave in prison and the stupid among the clergy.
To obtain that which is just we must ask that which is unjust.
If the bread in the oven is a failure you lose a week; if the harvest is a failure you lose a year; if marriage is a failure then you lose a life.
A cat keeps its crawls inside until it meets a mouse.
Time and hour run through the roughest day.
When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is topsy-turvy.
We've made a hole in the water.
Roasted pigeons will not fly into one's mouth.
At a wedding a bride eats the least.
We will ride that colt when he is grown to wear a saddle.
The sky is so close for him who sits.
When friends fall out the truth doth appear.
Bad charcoal only makes smoke.
Attack is the best form of defence.
Dish and spoon cannot be without jingling.
You cannot hang everything on a single peg.
Close, but no cigar.
An apple a day turns away illness.
The full person does not understand the needs of the hungry.
You heard the ring, but don't know where.
There are more chains than mad dogs.
Before the bending arm straighten, or before the straighten arm bends.
A man who is patient is rewarded.
Roots do not know what a leaf has in mind.
Virtue practiced to be seen is not real virtue; vice which fears to be seen is real vice.
If nakedness promises to cloth you then look at its name.
Better a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
Vinegar that costs nothing is sweeter than honey.
Distracted by what is far away, he does not see his nose.
Do not leave your host's house throwing mud in his well.
Hunger has no law; it's just hungry.
It is not the horse that draws the cart, but the oats.
God cures the sick, and the doctor gets the money.
A good thing is soon caught up.
One man with courage is a majority.
A woman of thirty is not tempted by the devil.
The hand that is on top is better than the hand that is below.
He who touches honey is compelled to lick his fingers.
Judge not by the eye but by the heart.
Where might is the master, justice is the servant.
The water carrier does not drink mud.
Never sit while your seniors stand.
The stubborn man is ruled by a fool.
Teenagers act like babies if they are not treated like adults.
To bend a bamboo, start when it is a shoot.
A book holds a house of gold.
Eighty percent of life is showing up.
Remember to dig the well long before you get thirsty.
Often has a tattered colt grown to be a splendid horse. A ragged colt may make a good horse.
The more acquaintance, the more danger.
Above all nations is humanity.
However long the moon disappears, someday it must shine again.
As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, the truest lover may turn into the worst enemy.
No lock avails against a hatchet.
Now is the watchword of the wise.
Charity begins at hame.
The country rooster dows not crow in the town.
It is a great point of wisdom to find out one's own folly.
Don't judge any man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins.
If a dane first has come into the room, more danes will probably follow.
It's difficult to choose between two blind goats.
Business is business.
It's easy to wad your neighbor's field.
Debts are like children: the smaller they are the more noise they make.
God grant me to argue with those who understand me.
A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client.
Houses are the graves of the living.
He that would be ill served should keep plenty of servants.
Let every man carry his own sack to the mill.
Make ae lang step and down ye gae.
Profit is it's own reward.
The worse the dun, the worst the paymaster.
Never drop the bone to catch the shadow.
Red house and a potato patch.
Joy is like the ague; one good day between two bad ones.
Wasting is a bad habit, saving is a sure income.
Deal with your friends as if they will become your enemies tomorrow, and deal with your enemies as if they will become your friends tomorrow.
See the weakest fruit drops earliest to the ground.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a bustard on the wing.
Everybody is wise after the thing has happened.
The preacher must be like a chicken who always has an egg in reserve.
The worst kind of dog is the one who does not want to bite.
One sprinkles the most sugar where the tart is burnt.
Darkness lies one inch ahead.
The limits is the starlit sky.
Anger of the mind is poison to the soul.
You will never find a cat on a cold hearth.
Give, and ye shall receive.
Let not your left hand see what your right hand does.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
The ground of liberty must be gained by inches.
A turtle never abandons its carriage.
A tender-hearted mother makes a scabby daughter.
The umbrella was made for rainy days, the white man uses it for the sun.
One's name remains above the grave.
Don't tell your complaint to one who has no pity.
A little pot boils easily.
If Jesus Christ comes to help me, I laugh at the angels.
Show her the rudder, but don't steer her boat.
If you don't have money, you're not worth listening to.
Master and servant - both have the same body odor.
If you want to be revenged, hold your tongue.
Love is blind to blemishes and faults.
Naught venture, naught have.
Four things come not back -- the spoken word, the sped arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity.
The rich man breaks through the mesh and escapes, the afflicted man remains in the net and is caught.
If there were no receiver there would be no thief.
Before the time, great courage; when at the point, great fear.
When an elephant falls, meat is sure to be surplus for those who follow the hunter.
Vinegar is the son of wine.
The corn is not choked by the weeds but by the negligence of the farmer.
Good housewife support three corners of the house.
Women naturally deceive, weep and spin.
You talk sweet like the bulbul bird.
The lion who lives a life of compassion will receive it.
A half truth is a whole lie.
Show the fatted calf, but not the thing that fattened him.
Bad men excuse their faults, good men leave them.
The friendship of the great is fraternity with lions.
The labour is in itself a pleasure.
The foot of a lamp is always the least lit.
Growing old is no more than another bad habit.
Too much will soon break.
It is not enough to aim; you must hit.
He is a buck of an endless forest.
If you conduct yourself properly, then fear no one.
If you learn a lot, you'll age soon.
You can even be a God, if you try.
When your neighbor got the itches you too must seek the remedy.
A partner in the business will not put an obstacle to it.
Poverty and hunger have many learned disciples.
The way you prepare the bed, so shall you sleep.
If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, strike hard.
To be uncertain is to be uncomfortable, but to be certain is to be ridiculous.
Where there is love, there is peace.
If the banana pest doesn't die it will always reach at the ripe banana.
Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.
No one trips with the same stone twice.
He who hunts after bargains will scratch his head.
About the King and the Inquisition, hush!
To him who is determined it remains only to act.
What the heart thinks, the tongue speaks.
Do not pray when it is raining if you do not pray when the sun is shining.
Some people make things happen, some watch things happen, while others wonder what has happened.
Keep the common road, and thou'rt safe.
They that have got good store of butter may lay it thick on their bread.
Cheap work will be expensive.
Don't send away your cat for being a thief.
Always tell the truth in the form of a joke.
He is consumed by a vain hope.
Spurs that are too sharp make even the mule rear.
From praise, as from a shadow, a man is neither bigger nor smaller.
A piece of bread in your pocket is better than a feather in your hat.
A person who is outwardly calm has anger raging inside.
It's surely nice to be engaged and drunk, but it's different to have hangover and marriage.
He who sits waiting for his neighbor will go to bed hungry.
The just man may sin with an open chest of gold before him.
Of runes they spoke, and the reading of runes was little withheld from their lips.
Envy eats nothing but its own heart.
The cask can give no other wine that that it contains.
For a drunkard the sea only reaches his knees.
Its so simple, it must be right.
It's better that it should make you sick than that you don't eat it at all.
A bad wound may heal, but a bad name will kill.
The gods sell all things for labour.
You are comparing a rose to an anemone.
It is ill putting a sword in a madman's hand.
The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives.
Always a valley before a hill.
Run as hard as a wild beast if you will, but you won't get any reward greater than that destined for you.
He whose mouth was once burned by hot mush, blows even at sour milk.
In at one ear and out at the other.
Before a man learns to hang he is half dead.
Rest comes from unrest, and unrest from rest.
He puts his hand into a wasp's nest.
A soft dropping April brings milk to cows and sheep.
Deep doubts, deep wisdom; small doubts, little wisdom.
All claim kindred with the prosperous.
Choose your lodging before dark and leave before the morning dew.
If you be a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
Two goodies: young woman and an old sauna.
The quail waits for the stick; the idle loiterer about a place waits for a kick from an old boot.
The bailiff's cow and another's cow are two different cows.
It is better to go home and make your net than to gaze longingly at the fish in the deep pool.
The businessman is only judged in two ways: successful or failure.
Who finds a faithful friend, finds a treasure.
It is fair and just to cheat the cheater.
Thinking is the essence of wisdom.
A mouse does not share a bowl with a cat.
Do not put a grass turban on my head.
There's many a ship lost within sight of harbour.
Poverty is no vice but an inconvenience.
The gallows takes its own.
If someone hits you with a stone, hit him with bread; your bread will return to you and his stone will return to him.
A rabbit is never caught twice in the same place.
A fool only wins the first game.
Honest work won't let you live in a stone palace.
Accidents may happen to anyone.
One witness one liar; more witnesses, all liars.
Better to live well than long.
The day the monkey is destined to die, all the trees get slippery.
You keep making that face and it'll stay that way.
It is a bold mouse that makes her nest in the cat's ear.
Let every fox take care of his own tail.
The owl thinks her own young fairest.
Sing not of triumph before the victory.
If you don't want to be deceived, then marry on February 30th.
You jump up, but you come down all the same.
What canna be cured maun be endured.
Eat fire and your mouth will burn live on credit and your pride will burn.
Help him who is willing to work, not him who shrinks from it.
Half of an orange tastes just as sweet as a whole one.
A churl knows not the work of spurs.
Maize cannot get justice in a chicken's court.
Covetousness is never satisfied till its mouth is filled with earth.
Better a quiet death than a public misfortune.
An old dog does not bark for nothing.
Folks like the truth that hits their neighbor.
A thief who steals from a thief is not a thief.
If the hen did not cackle no one would know what she had been about.
If you want to buy love, love itself is the price you'll have to pay.
Wear not out your welcome.
One cannot borrow a man's mouth and eat onions for him.
Too many barbers would be ready to shave the beard of a beardless man.
Plough deep, while sluggards sleep; and you shall have corn to sell and keep.
Catch the halter rope and it will lead you to the donkey.
The rabble, as of old, truckles to success, and hates a favourite in disgrace.
In death, I am born.
The faulty stands on his guard.
The last straw.
He is as welcome as the first day in Lent.
Count siller after a' your kin.
There are only two kinds of women, the plain and the coloured.
Zeal is fit only for wise men but is found mostly in fools.
All political parties die at last of swallowing their own lies. (John Arbuthnot)
Medicine left in the bottle can't help.
He who has nothing to die for has nothing to live for.
With your hat in your hand you can travel the entire country.
To sit by the ring and tell the man inside, 'knock him down.'
Envy takes no holiday.
The lame runs if he has to.
Whether it was the tenant who seduced the landlord's wife, or the landlord who seduced the tenant's wife, it is the tenant who would leave the house.
Practice gives skill.
Grass will not grow on a volcano.
What soap is to the body, laughter is to the soul.
Believe only a little of what you see and nothing that you hear.
Foolish spending is a father of poverty.
It is better to have bread left over than to run short of wine.
Good men must die, but death cannot kill their names.
By different methods different men excel.
When the cat is out the mouse can dance.
You never get a headache from winning.
The lucky fellow loses his wife, the unlucky fellow loses his horse.
He who sits in the shade won't take an axe to the tree.
A good friend is often better than a brother.
Three things demonstrate a lack of filial piety.
Look for a black goat while it is still daytime.
Old men and poodles are good for nothing.
Glowing coals sparkle oft.
A merry companion on the road is as good as a nag.
The withered tree will destroy the healthy tree when it falls down.
A woman's voice arouses lust in a man.
A Kerry shower is of twenty-four hours.
Many students have become kings or queens, but no teachers have.
Don't fetch water in a basket.
They marry under bad auspices who marry in the month of May.
Two great talkers will not travel far together.
A cow-year, a sad year; a bull-year, a glad year.
He who has a head of wax must not go near the fire.
A man cannot carry all his kin on his back.
Summer is the mother of the poor.
Abroad one has a hundred eyes, at home not one.
‘I nearly killed the bird.' no one can eat ‘nearly' in a stew.
Eyes have no screens, they see all that is within view.
You must marry a widow while she is still mourning.
A fish with teeth tastes the same as fish without.
The quiet pigs eat all the draff.
An inch is a great deal on a nose.
Every who streches a skin on a drum, pulls the skin own his own side.
Until the lions have their historians, tales of hunting will always glorify the hunter.
If thou seest ought amiss, mend it in thyself.
The old monkey gets the apple.
When love cools fauts are seen.
An oleit Mother makes a fweir Daughter.
Pride only goes the length one can spit.
One need not enjoy virtue.
You may know a lion by his claw.
He drives the water to the mill of somebody.
Who wants to have something good, will have to seek it where it is.
He is afraid of it, as the devil fears holy water or incense.
He who doesn't know how a snake smells shouldn't walk into the forest.
I grew up among wise men and found that there is nothing better for man than silence.
Water after does not quench a fire at hand.
Think of ease, but work on.
Get what you can, and what you get, hold; it's the stone that will turn all your lead into gold.
Closer than the carotid artery.
Better the head of a village than the tail of a town.
The sword keeps the peace of the land.
You can't measure a snake until it's dead.
Meat has no choice morsel.
He has a head, and so has a pin.
In vain is the mill-clock if the miller his hearing lack.
You can't blame the axe for the noise made by the chicken you are about to slaughter.
May the hinges of our friendship never grow rusty.
The most beautiful fig may contain a worm.
Accumulation of riches brings wisdom.
Who begins amiss ends amiss.
It is easier to get away from the back than the bottom.
He who has not seen seville has not seen a wonder.
Another's misfortune is only a dream.
As long as time is not pressing one does not burn incense; when it becomes urgent one kisses the feet of Buddha.
The door of success is marked ‘push and pull.'
My enemy isn't the one who harms me, but the one who makes me evil.
The shoemakers children go barefoot.
A bow long bent at last waxes weak.
Who takes care of a cat will take care of a horse too.
Like a deaf man in a parade.
Better an egg in peace, than an ox in war.
Fish and guests smell when they are three days old.
Who suffers from love, feels no pain.
The brave man may die, but he will never say "die."
He that touches pitch defiles himself.
Don't look for speed in a cheap horse; be content if it neighs.
A bleating sheep loses a bite.
Flatters, like rats, tickle and then bite.
If someone transports dung and does not eat it, it should not be concluded that he is an honest person.
Towards evening the lazy person begins to get busy.
No friendship is strong that owes its rise to a pot. Недолговечна дружба, возникшая за обе денным столом.
He drives a good waggonful into his farm who gets a good wife.
To be like the tailor of Campillo, who worked for nothing, and found thread.
It is safest to sail within reach of the shore.
A single merit cannot make a hundred demerits fade.
Giving alms never lessens the purse.
When the crocodiles leave, the caymans come.
A leader must stand alone.
Let us sit bent, but talk straight.
Eat when the food is ready; speak when the time is right.
The moon is not seen where the sun shines.
Woe is he who claims to have found happiness.
Avarice increases with wealth.
You will find enough of brushna in every wood to burn it.
The whip cracks at the end.
Crows with crows and ravens with ravens.
Borderers are either thieves or murderers.
He who governs by his moral excellence may be compared to the Pole star which abides in its place while all other stars bow towards it.
The person who only accepts friends without faults will never have any real friends.
Where the heart sleeps is where you're bound to go at dawn.
Beauty without virtue is a rose without fragrance.
A rich man's foolish sayings often pass for wise ones.
The rotten apple spoils its companion.
Under a ragged coat lies wisdom.
Hasty work - shame for its creator.
At the end of the work, you may judge the workman.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
You spoke with your own mouth.
The poor man pleads, the judge listens.
Every course of water has its source.
Until the lion tells his side of the story, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
One may teach another to speak, but none can teach another to hold his peace.
One with lean meat or merely even just the skin is better off than one with mushrooms.
When a king is about to lose his power his orders burn more intensely than fire.
When you are polite, the others think they are wearing flowers.
You can shut the door on a thief, but you can do nothing about a liar.
The land is a chief, and a person is its lowly servant.
He that washes an ass's head loses both his lye and his labour.
What should a cow do with a nutmeg?
That which I receive, that I return.
Deceit and treachery make no man rich.
All things are possible with God.
A drowning man clings to a blade of grass.
Never do today what you can put off till tomorrow.
As you go the way of life you will see a great chasm. Jump. It is not as wide as you think.
A quarrel between brothers costs soul and life.
Smart bird gets trapped in its beak.
It is easy to collect ears of corn under, beside a stack.
Wisdom is more precious than rubies.
He who has no intelligence is happy with it.
If you rely on god, you won't fail.
He got out of the bucket and got into the pail.
If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book.
Long choosing and cheapening ends in buying nothing, or bad wares.
When they give you the calf, be ready with the halter.
His tongue says little, but powerful is his right arm.
Better to be shot with a crossbow than rejected by a window slammed shut.
I ne'er lo'ed water in my shoon, and my wame's made o' better leather.
Ye're a foot behint the foremost.
The higher the mountain the lower the valley, the taller the tree the harder the fall.
No one was ever hurt by laughter.
When out to kill a fly, don't roll out a cannon to accomplish it.
Silence is a fence around wisdom.
He'll laugh well that laughs longest.
The stingy has a big porch and little morality.
Don't trust a trained louse.
Plenty, is na Dainty.
A blade won't cut another blade; a cheat won't cheat another cheat.
The fly fell into the milk.
By Saint Candelora day if it's not snowing or raining, winter is over.
Sow fava bean and flax with confidence while you still have a full silo.
A mute bird makes no omen.
A quarrel is like an itch; the more you scratch, the more it itches.
Someone else's pain is easy to carry.
After taking ninety-nine years to climb a stairway, the tortoise falls and says there is a curse on haste.
Follow not truth too near the heels, lest it dash out thy teeth.
Threatened folks may live the longest: they take numerous precautions.
To lie and eat fish demand a lot of skill.
Even when there is no rooster, the morning will still start.
The lazy man is jealous of the one who works and succeeds.
Gifts dissolve rocks.
It's not the beauty of a woman that blinds the man, the man blinds himself.
One shouldn't praise the day before the evening.
No sweat, no sweet.
Long skirts carry dust, but short skirts carry away souls.
A man without money is a bow without an arrow.
Look first at the mother and then the daughter.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
Rain beats on a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots.
Abuse often starts with praise.
He who doesn't want to listen will have to experience.
A happy man marries the girl he loves, but a happier man loves the girl he marries.
Kamehameha e,
What boy one begs for, the man throws away.
A secret foe gives a sudden blow.
There was a time they loved an accordionist, and now the time has come where they love a tractor driver.
Punishment is a cripple, but it arrives.
Old oxen tread hard.
Higher duties mean greater responsibilities.
Bones and flesh of the martyrs lie buried in earth, but their revolutionary spirit and single-hearted fidelity remain alive.
When a deceiving man tells you to climb a tree, tell him to climb it first. If he finds a comfortable spot you can follow him.
Ye'll neither dance or haud the candle.
There will be sleeping enough in the grave.
The opportunity of a lifetime is seldom so labeled.
If you show a rich man kindness, you gain nothing.
First look at home, then censure me.
If the lady of the house breaks something it is an unfortunate accident; if the servant does, then it is a terrible disaster.
It's not good for anyone to be alone.
A good deal for two, is a clip on the ears of a third.
It costs nothing to look.
A rope parts where it is thinnest.
Only a fool will stay a fool.
Half a loaf is better than none.
There is a scorpion under every stone.
The beginning is the half of every action.
A man's good name is as precious to him as its skin is to a tiger.
Don't get mad, get even.
Quha may wooe, but Cost?
The lion is a beautiful animal, when seen at a distance.
Good counsel may come too late to be of help.
The more hair a dog has, the more fleas he will have.
He makes the bed soft, yet it's hard to sleep on.
He who buys useless things, later sells things that he needs.
The lion is known by the scratch of his claws.
He falsifies who renders a verse just as it looks.
Not to know is bad, not to wish to know is worse.
Marry in haste and repent at leisure.
The rope that hangs a monkey, hangs a baboon as well.
Who drinks at night, buys himself death, who drinks in bed, buys himself a coffin.
Better a meal of vegetables where there is love than a fatted ox where there is hatred.
The ill wind that blows is probably your mother-in-law farting.
If you want to drown yourself, don't torture yourself with shallow water.
A smart person will not climb a mountain; A smart person will go around it.
You can't hatch chickens from fried eggs.
Unless there is opposing wind, a kite cannot rise.
What matter if I suffer, if only my neighbor suffers too.
If a man is unhappy, his conduct is the cause.
Many a one for land takes a fool by the hand.
He who killeth the lion when absent feareth a mouse when present.
Beware of the dog that does not bark.
A judge and a stomach do their asking in silence.
When an ant gets wings, it loses its head.
Qualities of a moral order are measured by deeds.
Make a pact with the devil until you have crossed the bridge.
If you dance with the devil you can't change him but he will change.
He who puts off something will lose it.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
Wise men learn from other men's mistakes; fools insist on learning from their own.
An open path never seems long.
If you are not a fish, how can you know if the fish are happy?
The horse may run quickly, but it can't escape its own tail.
Only he who carries it knows how much the cross weighs.
Like a fence, character cannot be strengthened by whitewash.
No better witnesses than your own eyes.
The wind does not respect a fool.
Those who are in the following of the prince of everlastingness and God of life, sing with joy.
You must have good luck to catch hares with a drum.
Theologians, dogs, and singers always disagree.
One thumb alone does not kill a louse.
To find the dog in the pot.
He who has a good looking wife, a castle on the river, or a vineyard on the roadside is never without war.
It is idle to swallow the cow and choke on the tail.
If you want to build high, you must dig deep.
A pan was mocking a pot because his mouth is big.
He who gives bread to others' dogs is often barked at by his own.
By working in the smithy one becomes a smith.
Be the horse good or bad always wear your spurs.
Desperate evils require desperate remedies.
Other people's money has sharp teeth.
The absent party is always to blame.
Most haste, worst speed.
It is better to prevent than to cure.
The squirrel does not talk back to the elephant.
Earth is old, but it is not mad.
Agree, agree, for the law is costly.
If the young man knew, if the old man could, there is nothing but would be done.
An ape is an ape, though decked with gold.
For an apple and an egg.
Red as a beet.
Better a bony agreement than a fat disagreement.
Poor memory is better than bad memories.
A song belongs to no one.
Love demands faith, and faith firmness.
A frog living at the bottom of the well thinks that the sky is as small.
We taught them to pray, they got to the mosque before us.
A bird will always use another birds' feathers to feather its own nest.
A devil with fine manners can still carry you only to hell.
A coddled cat doesn't catch mice.
Many a man is a good friend but a bad neighbour.
God's friends, the priest's foe.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
In time of war, any hole is trench.
We can be deceived by fair appearance.
Take one, not that you may return with ten.
He who goes to collect wool may come back shorn.
The womb is not a boat, it cannot carry as much.
A lady has to be of the right cut and the right measure to make a pretty figure.
The house does not rest upon the ground, but upon a woman.
Count again is not forbidden.
Don't paint the devil on the wall.
While the smart man plans to get married, the foolish one ends up with a family.
Eating a lot does not satisfy greediness.
In the olive grove, a wise man at the feet and a wild man at the head.
After bad luck comes good fortune.
When a bee stings a man, he doesn't set off to destroy all beehives.
It is not at the table but in prison that you learn who your true friends are.
Trust not your money to one whose eyes are bent on the ground.
A life without love is like a year without summer.
Listening to a liar is like drinking warm water.
It's good dancing on another man's floor.
A fair death honors the whole life.
One who curses someone in public, brings it on himself in private.
In dense woods the trees grow straight.
He who is meant to be a basket-carrier is born with the handle in his hand.
The sun dial counts only the bright hours.
The strong man and the waterfall channel their own path.
Pride and sweirnesse would have meikle upholding.
There is no coincidence in getting married.
Express yourself earnestly, and you have no reason for shame even if you lack talent.
There are twenty-five uncaught sparrows for a penny.
If you prune in April you'll fill your barrels not with wine, but with water.
A kind speech and forgiveness is better than alms followed by injury.
The rat betrayed by his own track perishes.
Many small brooks will form a big river.
When an elephant eats and eats and still cries for more, it is the grass that will get embarrassed.
Even a weak lion is not bitten by a dog.
You are either hammer or anvil.
Some birds avoid the water, ducks seek it.
Do not kill an animal unless you intened to eat it.
You can't make bricks without straw.
The fly sat upon the axle of the chariot-wheel and said "What a lot of dust I raise!"
Do not confine your children to your own learning, for they were born in another time.
A little rain each day will fill the rivers to overflowing.
Forbidden fruit is sweetest.
For when the wine is in the wit is out. (Thomas Becon)
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not giving it wings.
Follow the liar right to his door.
The rich have medicines the poor have health.
Money is round, and rolls.
Don't pour away your water on the strength of a mirage.
Marry a mountain girl and you marry the whole mountain.
Work relieves us from three great evils, boredom, vice, and want.
The best mirror of all is an old friend.
Complain to the one who can help you.
Pay attention when an old dog is barking.
Two in distress makes sorrow less.
The cat with cream on her whiskers should have a good excuse ready.
He who falls, teaches others a lesson.
The mouse is silent while laboring, but when the baby is conceived, she cries.
Bread in one hand, a stone in the other.
The snail leaves its trail wherever it goes.
If you enter a goat stable, bleat; if you enter a water buffalo stable, bellow.
A parasite cannot live alone.
One armpit cannot hold two watermelons.
He that comes first to the hill, may sit where he will.
He who will have eggs, must bear with the cackling.
The midwife should have cut his throat rather than his navel.
Would you know your daughter? See her in company.
Be patient with your enemies and forgiving of your friends.
Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author.
Who fails to listen to his elders, will hang his knapsack in the wrong place.
Gold has its price; learning is beyond price.
A good horse is a member of the family.
It is not all who turn their backs that flee.
Cold strengthens you more than hunger.Yiddish Proverbs
Thy Thumb is under my Belt.
In July, store the grain under the bed.
Would rather be a chicken's head than a phoenix's tail.
The gods may still send a gentle breeze when they want to bless us.
The eye of the Syracusan makes the snakes come out of their pits.
Woe to Leili's doogh, the yogurt was too little and the water too much.
A bird in hand is worth two in a bush.
Birds align with grain, but not with the stick.
You canot know the bugs of a bed that you have not lain on.
Desire is worse then compulsion.
A hundred men can sit together quietly.
Laughter is the hiccup of a fool.
Onion treats seven ailments.
Grey hair into beard, devil into rib.
Even if you close your eyes while looking in the mirror the image remains yours.
He who is best for me is he who shall get the best share.
Let him who gives nothing be silent, and him who receives speak.
Give an extra piece of cake to a stepchild.
Every bird sings as it is beaked.
Hail to thee, Nicaragua "Salve a ti, Nicaragua” is the Nicaraguan national anthem. (Video)
Good perfume is known by its scent rather than by the perfumer's advertisement.
Here you do, here you pay.
The mills of God grind slowly, but surely.
It's a bad child who does not take advice.
Lead a pig to the Rhine, it remains a pig.
An iron ring made of wood.
Anything forced is not beautiful.
If the tail of the dog can save me, I don't care about its stench.
A difficult journey will make you daring and harden your will.
A young wife, new bread, and green wood devastate a house.
Have an open face, but conceal your thoughts.
Don't call a man who has a field in valgonu "poor”.
Who seeks a quarrel will find it near at hand.
God gave the giraffe a long neck so that He would not have to bend the palm tree.
Don't reject the crooked road and don't take the straight one, instead take the one traveled by the ancestors.
Woman's beauty, the forest echo, and rainbows, soon pass away.
Enough with the irrelevant details.
The wolf barks in vain at the moon.
Adversity is easier borne than prosperity forgot.
April showers bring forth May flowers.
A thing too much seen is little prized.
A wise man learns at the fool's expense.
Bad times came to be; hens on thrones we were to see.
In wine there is wisdom. In beer there is strength. In water there is bacteria.
He fishes well who uses a golden hook.
When all things spoke the potato said, ‘set me warm, dig me warm, eat me warm, that's all i want.'
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
There is no such thing as dirty clothes when it is cold.
A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove.
Careless hurry may cause endless regret.
If it were not for hope, the heart would break.
He that dines with the gods must do so with a very long spoon.
No smoke without fire.
The rich never have to seek out their relatives.
The fellow roasts his fish in the flames of a fire.
The hen lays upon an egg.
The best goods are the cheapest.
A tongue has no bones but it can break.
God sends cold according to the clothes.
False friends are worse than bitter enemies.
There is no silver here three hundred taels.
Ye pleasant men, are ye aware of the nature of children? What we have is theirs, but what they get is not ours.
Eat vegetables and fear no creditors, rather than eat duck and hide.
Kiss the hand of your enemy if you cannot chop it off: envy has no rest.
It is not good to eat cherries from the same dish with persons of high rank.
The unqualified man desires to climb to the top; the bad man desires to sit at the head of the table.
Between the hand and the lip the soup may be spilt.
God gives clothes according to the cold.
This too, shall pass.
A blind crow may sometimes find a grain of wheat.
He who wants to kill his dog only has to say he is mad.
He is master of another man's life who is indifferent to his own.
A warrior is not a wrestler, he's killed the moment is spear and shield are over powered.
You never lose a false coin.
If you go to sleep with the blind, you'll wake up squinting.
Di daakes' part a di night, a when diay soon light.
Blame it on the rain.
Ours is ours, but mine is mine.
Quality goods advertise themselves.
Money makes the mare go.
Punishment is assigned for the swaggerer; he is afflicted with diseases.
When a friend asks, there is no tomorrow.
Dirt parts company.
First deserve and then desire.
The road of "about," leads only to the house of "never." Near the spring nobody dies of thirst.
It's better to lie a little than to be unhappy.
Mighty oaks from little acorns grow.
Take hold lightly; let go lightly. This is one of the great secrets of felicity in love.
Ask advice of your equals, help of your superiors.
A good deed is written on snow.
Never leave a mate behind.
Nothing is such a heavy burden as a secret is.
English equivaleny: He who sups with the devil must use a long spoon.
Hunger is the best cook, but he has nothing to eat.
A red-nosed man may not be a drunkard, but he will always be called one.
Nothing is lost for asking.
I have had is a poor man.
When a man finds no peace within himself, it is useless to look for it elsewhere.
The person who lives with cripples will soon learn to limp.
He who promises incurs a debt.
He who guards his lips, guards his life.
If you don't want anyone to take your place, don't ever show that you're frightened.
A child is a blessing for any man's roof.
Sometimes it is better to give your apple away, than to eat it yourself.
The cry of the hyena and the loss of the goat are one.
The cow has a bad delivery though her owner is present.
One can care little for man, but we need a friend.
The good judge starts at home.
None more bare than the shoemaker's wife and the smith's mare.
Enjoy the present day, trusting little to what tomorrow may bring.
God helps him who wakes up early at dawn.
'tis a fat bird that bastes itself.
Virtue is power.
The governor must fill your jars.
Black fowl can lay white eggs.
What good serve candle and glasses, if the owl does not want to see.
The child that is left to himself will put his mother to shame.
To talk much and arrive nowhere is the same as climbing a tree to catch a fish.
Every monkey will have his gambols.
A hundred years hence we shall all be bald.
God makes the new day with or without the rooster .
Unity is equal to a thousand golden coins.
Hard with hard doesn't make a good wall.
Children have wide ears and long tongues.
A great sea comes not through a narrow strait.
Whoever goes on foot during April and May, goes on horseback the rest of the year.
Show me, and I may not remember.
The fatter the flea, the leaner the dog.
Greetings are the patron gods of our time.
There is no bad food in a famine.
Don't measure your neighbor's honesty by your own.
A tear at the right moment is better than a misplaced smile.
The stone is hard and the drop is small, but a hole is made by the constant fall.
The real cost for both a neat house and a well kept vineyard is incalculable.
Many are called but few are chosen.
He cut his axe into a big tree.
A rakish bachelor makes a jealous husband.
The brain, that sows not corn, plants thistles.
An honest man's word is as good as the king's.
He has the Bible on his lips, but not in his heart.
If you call one wolf, you invite the pack.
The teeth are not match for the nut.
A traveler may lie with authority.
Let lie what is too heavy to lift.
Honesty maketh rich, but she works slowly.
Hang a thief when he's young, and he'll not steal when he's old.
Do not put your spoon into the pot which does not boil for you.
What comes seldom, comes sharp.
He is a fool that kisseth the maid when he may kiss the mistress.
When the fruit is scarcest, its taste is sweetest.
The unknown is always great.
Where there is a hippopotamus, be careful when passing with a pirogue.
Like the herb plucked on sunday, it does neither good nor ill.
A sin confessed is half forgiven.
Every disease has a medicine except for death.
If the Devil were dead, folk would do little for God's sake.
No need to seek shelter for an old ox.
After work rest is sweet.
Fighting is harmful.
One is not born a warrior, you become one.
Do not walk behind us, we may not lead; do not walk in front of us, we may not follow; walk besides us, so that we may guide each other.
The real nettle will sting early.
Hide not your light under a bushel.
Never say ‘from this water I shall not drink'.
Strive though you fail.
A baby is an angel whose wings decrease as his legs increase.
Suspicion may be no fault, but showing it may be a great one.
Near is my petticoat but nearer is my smock.
The fire is welcome within, when icicles hang without.
If you are going to fight, pray once; if you are going to sail, pray twice; if you are getting married, then pray thrice.
You should not call in a cat to settle the argument of two birds.
A cracked bell will never be sound.
Far from eye, far from heart. (14th century)
A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
A buxom widow must be married, buried, or cloistered.
Masters' hints are commands.
It is height makes Grantham steeple stand awry.
There is no such witness as a good measure of wine.
Among men of honour a word is a bond.
The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong.
That's the piece a step-bairn never got.
It doubles the value of a gift to be well-timed.
He who does not climb, will not fall either.
This is not my table.
The closed mouth doesn't catch any flies.
Meddle not with another man's matter.
Who arrives in the darkness departs as night falls.
It is no time to play chess when the house is on fire.
True sages are those who give what they have, without meanness and without secret.
If it rains on the pastor it drops on the vicar.
At high tide the fish eat ants; at low tide the ants eat fish.
Almost and "about" prevent lying.
Many lick before they bite.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a pigeon on the roof.
The complete fool is half prophet.
Misfortune does not restrict his visits to one day.
Small gifts go to places where men expect bigger ones.
Don't say "wheat" until it's in the bag and well tied up.
Beware of Beware of "Had I known”.
Greed is eternal.
Open thy mouth that I may know thee.
There is a cause for all things.
A ripe melon falls by itself.
Flies' legs, like the tongue of critics, land on whatever they find.
Han'some face and good luck don' trabble de same pass.
The wolf commits no mischief at home.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about. (Strauss, 1994 p. 221)
The dog never forgets its owner.
He who has great strength should use it lightly.
Small tuft often overturns a big load.
Every wise woman builds her house: but the fool plucks it down with her hands.
Said the frying pay to the kettle, Stand off, black bottom.
Customers are jade; merchandise is grass.
Suit the behavior to the occasion.
Too far for jackals? no worthwhile tree here.
Nothing passes between asses but kicks.
A visitor doesn't survive from a stick beat of a burglar.
A good client doesn't change shop in three years, a good shop doesn't change clients in three years.
The believer is happy; the doubter is wise.
Speech is silver, silence is golden; speech is human, silence is divine.
Wise men honor their wives.
Only men with thick lips should smoke a cigar.
Patience is bitter, but it bears sweet fruit.
A new doctor is a plague on the country.
Coming events cast their shadows before.
The laborer is worthy of his hire.
What's done in the corner will come to the hearth.
Better no ring, nor the ring of a rash.
If you reach for the highest of ideals, you shouldn't settle for less than the stars.
It is better to build bridges than walls.
Eggs may be smarter than the chickens, but it doesn't take long for them to stink.
Who is blind? He who can see no other world. Who is dumb? He who can say nothing pleasant about his lot. Who is poor? He who is troubled with too many desires. Who is rich? He who is happy with his lot.
Being well dressed does not prevent one from being poor.
The fox that tarries long is on the watch for prey.
Who gives, has.
Words are like arrows throw them only when you know where they will fall.
If it's not here and now, who cares about what and when?
It's always something said the girl with a nosebleed.
There is a remedy for everything; it is called death.
Their mosquito won't bite me.
The beauty of the man is in his intelligence and the intelligence of the woman is in her beauty.
God is the doctor of the man who quarrels with his master.
Looking at a tree see its fruit; looking at a man see his deeds.
If the water is available you need not clean up with sand.
It is soon known which trees will bear fruit.
Wedded in september, widow or sorrow.
Green is the grass of the least trodden field.
You cannot dance without music though you can sing instrumentally without dancing.
You can count the apples on a tree but you can't count the trees from one apple.
You cannot forge a hammer from featherpod fluff, nor spin spidersilk from precious copper.
You can't measure the whole world with your own yardstick.
As fortune is sought, so it is found.
You cannot hold your head high with your hand out.
To save one man is like saving the world.
Even the hills nod in agreement
The foot of the farmer manures the field.
It is only the foolish cock that believes the sun won't rise if he doesn't crow.
Live and scratch - when you're dead the itching will stop.
A prompt refusal has in part the grace of a favour granted.
Do not walk in God's ways on someone else's behalf.
No answer is also an answer.
It takes a season for a snake to change into its new skin.
A proverb is a short sentence based on long experience.
A goat thief came along and they put him in jail.
There is no medicine against old age.
Fools build house and wise men live in them.
Self possessions are always undermined and other's possessions seem better.
Shoot at a pigeon and kill a crow.
Tell your friend a lie -- and if he keeps it a secret, tell him the truth.
Honour is the reward of virtue.
An ass's tail will not make a sieve.
The ear does not surpass the head.
Grass grows on its roots.
A red beard and a black head, catch him with a good trick and take him dead.
If one sheep puts his head through the gap the rest will follow.
If the throat can grant passage to a knife, the anus should wonder how to expel it.
Luck seeks those who flee and flees those who seek it.
Everyone will sit on a little donkey.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
Have a horse of your own and then you may borrow another's.
A thief not caught becomes a king.
You will not rise to the occasion, you will default to the level of your training.
A drunk's ass has no master.
Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do so.
God defend you from the devil, the eye of a harlot, and the turn of a die.
An ounce of proof is worth a ton of assertions.
He begins to die that quits his desires.
When there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world.
Variety is the spice of life.
When in charge, ponder. When in trouble, delegate. When in doubt, mumble.
No gain satisfies a greedy mind.
When the bells are in water they can't make any sound.
Flies will easily fly into the honey; their problem is how to get out.
Insanity is doing the same thing in the same way and expecting a different outcome.
Profit is profit even in Mecca.
The best mode of instruction is to practise what we preach.
The mind of a fool is like a broken pot it will hold no wisdom.
The labourer is worthy of his hire.
In a garment made of silk there are no fleas.
Choose a matchmaker, not a bride.
Don't be so clever; cleverer ones than you are in jail.
A marriage is a procession in which the cross goes first.
Success alters our manners.
Who eats his fowl alone, must saddle his horse alone.
When someone's wealth improves, all of a sudden their house's columns appear to be crooked.
Wit bought is the wit best, if it be not bought too dear.
Even hares pull a lion by the beard when he is dead.
The frowning face of a goat doesn't prevent it being taken to market.
Good fences make good neighbours.
Ain't no use askin' the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
The light heart lives long.
From the cradle to the tomb, Not all gladness, not all gloom.
Guest coming into house – God coming into house.
The wrong-headed fool, who refuses counsel, will come to grief.
The strength of a nation is its knowledge.
Women and donkeys need the stick.
Take wisdom from the wise - not everyone who rides a horse is a jockey.
A beautiful person might not have a beautiful life.
Norwegian herring and Finnish lads, those are seen at every harbour.
A nice face is the best letter of recommendation.
Death is the bride of life.
Flowers are God's way of smiling.
There's little value in the single cow.
A good wife and health are a man's best wealth.
He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.
Where the thread is weakest it breaks.
The jail is closed day and night and always full; temples are always open and still empty.
Give a man a fish, and he'll eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and he'll eat forever.
As the field, so the crops; as the father, so the sons.
Rejoice not at your enemy's fall, but don't pick him up, either.
That which brings misfortune is not big.
Old monkeys don't put their hand in jars.
No matter how big, one beam cannot support a house.
Never trust people who tell you all their troubles but keep from you all their joys.
You a lady, I a lady who is to drive out the sow?
You will break the bow if you keep it always bent.
In the desert sand is cheap.
The pardon arrives after the man was hung.
Flies don't get near a boiling pot.
The heart of a fool is in his mouth and the mouth of the wise man is in his heart.
If I haven't eaten wheat-bread, I've seen it in people's hands.
He who delivers another from danger, and he who removes terror from the mind, are the greatest of friends.
Work is burning under his hand.
A clean conscience is the best pillow.
Peace and harmony is great treasure.
Shame to the house where the hen crows and the cock is silent.
A man's ruin lies in his tongue.
Work the clay while it is still wet.
Large thongs of another man's leather.
Each stain comes to sight on a horse that is white.
Freedom is never given but taken.
The mother of mischief is no bigger than a midge's wing.
He who sleeps with a blind man will wake up cross-eyed.
A fly does not mind dying in coconut cream.
If bad be the raven, his company is no better.
News that's for money today will be for free tomorrow.
There are many ways to leave this world but only one way to come into it.
Do not roll up your trousers before reaching the stream.
He who holds somebody on the ground is holding himself too.
Pudden cyaa bake widout fiah.
Talk of the devil and he's sure to appear.
That's where the dog is buried.
The voice of the duck is the glory of the marshes.
A good day becomes evident in the morning.
On the belly there is silk, but in the belly - just a click.
A good man may be controlled by his wife, while lesser man dominates his.
The stomack is filled earlier than the eye.
Two wives are two pots full of poison.
Circumstances alter cases.
The dying man is not saved by medicine.
Illness comes in by mouth; ills come out by it.
And slip na certainty for howp.
Empty words will not fill an empty stomach.
All are not saints that go to church.
God writes straight by broken lines.
When death is there, dying is over.
Grapes are eaten one by one.
However far a man goes, he must start from his own door.
Knowledge is better than riches.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end. (Strauss, 1994 p. 600)
Since the house is on fire, let us warm ourselves.
He who is in hell knows not what heaven is.
A girl who cannot patch man's trousers in between the legs.
As you tapped it you will drink.
An hour of thinking is more expensive than an hour of working.
Dead song-birds make a sad meal.
May problems with neighbors last only as long as snow in March.
If you listen to dogs barking, you'll go deaf and never learn much.
The eye cannot rise above the eyebrow.
It's better to try than to hope.
Keep the best log for may.
Who steals the minaret will have a cover ready.
Many who kiss the child mean the nurse.
A resolute heart endures no counsel.
The poor lack much, but the greedy lack more.
Yuh does give yuh mout too much liberty.
If the man lets a woman know what he has got in his saving box, she will marry him for his money.
If a man gives you a basket to carry water, it means that he hates you.
Jade and men, both are sharpened by bitter tools.
Those who sacrifice their conscience to ambition burn a painting to obtain ashes.
When we ask a favour, we say, Madam; when we obtain it, what we please.
When the angels appear, the devils run away.
If a poor man ate it, they would say it was because of his stupidity.
Nobility is nothing but ancient riches, and money is the world's idol.
When a dog has money, he buys cheese.
When two friends have a common bank account, one sings and the other weeps.
The leopard that covers its black spots with hamaton dust solution will truly be exposed when the rain season comes.
Who sells, goes down; who buys, goes up.
The winner has many friends, the loser has good friends.
Good news always comes from far away.
The person who is cornered will fight.
No man can paddle two canoes at the same time.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away in the morning to avoid removing the ash; he will have to deal with it when he comes back.
Beauty is power.
It is as natural to be born as to die.
To be drunk every day is also a regular life.
Take him up there with his five Egges, and four of them rotten.
By committing foolish acts, one learns wisdom.
We benefit by affliction.
Man is like a bubble of water on the ocean.
The hunter knows his prey.
When an oxhorn of a news man is sounded, something is wrong.
The man whose conscience is clear will never fear a knock on the door at midnight.
Near is my coat, but nearer is my shirt.
Who has deceived thee so oft as thyself?
Mercy to the criminal may be cruelty to the people.
Don't mend what ain't broken.
When liars enter by the city gate, in front of them there is a finger pointing at them, behind them there is a finger pointing at them.
Keep it simple, stupid. (KISS)
The devil finds work for idle hands to do.
He who has a bad tongue should have good loins.
De tongue dat buy yuh does sell yuh.
An englishman's home is his castle.
Literal meaning: The gauge has overflown.
Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle.
The person who thinks about his own grief forgets about the grief of others.
They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove they are right.
He who bends over too far shows his rear end.
Walk like the cat around hot porridge.
He who has a handsome wife, a castle on the frontier, or a vineyard on the roadside, is never without war.
Spouses that love each other say a thousand things without speaking.
He that puts on a public gown must put off a private person.
Below the navel there is neither religion nor truth.
A thief does not willingly see another carry a basket.
Man is like a palm on the beach; moving with the wind of life.
Only death itself can end our hope.
One trick is met by another.
Better the first of its kind than the last.
Some prefer carrot while others like cabbage.
Misfortune upon misfortune is not wholesome.
All you can tell about a big belly is that the owner has had.
Take gifts with a sigh because most men give in order to be paid.
People want to avoid the dew before they become wet.
No rogue like the godly rogue.
Whoever brings his wife to every feast will not be lacking for headaches.
A healthy ear can stand hearing sick words.
Be neither intimate nor distant with the clergy.
Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them.
Laugh before breakfast, you'll cry before supper.
The creaking of the door deprives me of no sleep.
At night all cats are grey.
Hidden virtues ring like a soft bell.
Some will learn through pain and sorrow, others through joy and laughter, so it is written.
You cannot pick up a pebble with one finger.
Angry cats get scratched skin.
A feather is just a delicate thing when removed from a bird because it carries the bird everywhere in the world.
A woman is like a rat: even if it grows up in your house, it steals from you.
Everyone is the son of his own works.
Even a leaf does not flutter on the tree without the will of God.
Anyone can be polite to a king, but it takes a gentleman to be polite to a beggar.
He builds castles in the air.
One does not cross a river without getting wet.
Nothing stimulates the appetite like little on the plate.
With honour and store, what would you more.
Who throws a stone above him may have it fall on his own head.
Wherever there are bones, there are dogs.
One is one's own master on one's own stove.
Maybe a naked person should not be taken to a cloth shop.
Scratch my back and I will scratch yours.
Without the forest, there will be no more water, without water, there will be no more rice.
The young shed many skins.
It is the fool whose own tomatoes are sold to him.
They have sowed the seed of the word They have sowed the seed of the word "tomorrow" and it has not germinated.
He keeps his road well enough who gets rid of bad company.
It is a bare Moor that he goes over, and gets not a Cow.
If you deal in camels, make the doors high.
You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone.
Given counsel is all the same hard to take.
The sweetest grapes hang highest.
In good companionship, the monk took a wife.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness.
Don't cry herrings till they are in the net.
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings.
Salt does not brag that it is salted.
There is no law written for fools ( if it is written it's not read, if it is read it's not understood, if it is understood, in the wrong way).
An elephant hunter usually gets killed by an elephant.
When your fortune improves, the columns of your house appear to be crooked.
Great birth is a very poor dish at table.
The father a saint the son a devil.
One sin is too much, a hundred prayers are not enough.
A human learns how to talk early, but how to keep silent late.
Flatterers are cats that lick before and scratch behind.
According to the measure you will do, that measure you will find.
Whatever you sow, you reap.
Better to have a friend on the road than gold and silver in your purse.
Judge not the dog by its hair.
What worth has beauty if it is not seen?
Give a man some cloth and he'll ask for some lining.
The person who has been a slave from birth does not value rebellion.
We can not choose who our relatives should be, even though we may come to like some better than others.
Tortoises only make progress when they stick there necks out.
Don't sleep on the ground during those months that are spelled with an r.
Good company on the road is the shortest of short cuts.
An empty sack will not stand upright.
There is no use in carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking.
A second wife cannot celebrate the beating of the first wife because that same beating awaits her when the third wife arrives.
Even a hair hath its shadow.
A leader is he who tells his people what they must hear, not what they want to hear.
Be not water, taking the tint of all colors.
Poverty is not vile.
Character is easier kept than recovered.
Peacock, look at your legs.
Ill won gear winna enrich the third heir.
The sun at home warms better than the sun elsewhere.
The bird that can sing and won't sing should be made to sing.
He who buys a house gets many a plank and nail for nothing.
Eaten food is forgotten.
Wait horse for green grass.
Everyone makes firewood of a fallen tree.
When brains are needed, brawn won't help.
Where there are no tigers, a wild cat is very self-important.
The person who lives by hope will die by despair.
What isn't your duty isn't your business.
If you can't bite, don't show your teeth.
Too much hurry, and get there tomorrow; take time, get there today.
If you see a frog squatting on his house, don't ask him for a chair.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
The food we grow ourselves, is fit.
He who has bad breath cannot smell it.
Sitting securely in the saddle.
You must not teach fish to swim.
High trees catch lots of wind.
Speech is silver, but silence is golden.
Danger can never by overcome without taking risks.
One evil breeds another.
Don't trust in fortune until you are in heaven.
When you talk about future happenings the devil starts to laugh.
An abundance of money ruins youth.
Good drink drives out bad thoughts.
A slaughter house is not without a little blood.
At once a good general and a stout soldier.
Dogs are dogs, but cats are people.
Rather a piece of bread with a happy heart than wealth with grief.
The lucky man's enemy dies, and the unlucky man's friend.
An ounce of experience is worth a pound of theory.
Only a fool tests the depth of a river with both feet.
What nature gives us is not refused.
If you are a flag follow the wind.
There is some distance between Peter and Peter.
This is better than the thing we never had.
The counsel you would have another keep, first keep yourself.
When the master is absent, the frogs hop into the house.
Out of a great evil often comes a great good.
Nature and love cannot be hid.
The eye is bigger than the belly.
The throat must pay for what the tongue may say.
Victory is not gained by idleness.
The higher the ape climbs the more he shows his rump.
A smile will gain you ten more years of life.
Be kind to those that meet you as you rise, you may pass them again as you fall.
God has given nuts to some who have no teeth.
A man in not known till he cometh to honour.
The workman is known by his work.
You will not choke on big words and pig fat.
What the eye sees not the heart rues not.
Do not dwell in a city where a horse does not neigh nor a dog bark.
To be human is easy, to be a human being is difficult.
People count the faults of those who keep them waiting.
An ungrateful son is a wart on his father's nose. If he leaves it, it's ugly. If he removes it, it hurts.
Words are good, but fowls lay eggs.
A woman's belly is a garden with many fruits.
It would make a man scratch where it doth not itch, To see a man live poor to die rich.
A cat pent up becomes a lion.
Don't travel under another's lucky star.
Beauty Passes, wisdom remains.
No one can be an expected to be an expert at something before they have got the chance to practice it.
The mill does not grind with water that is past.
What is another's always sighs for its master.
Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit.
An indispensable thing never has much value.
The key that unlocks is also the key that locks. Honor a child, and he will honor you.
Who guards two termite hills, returns empty handed.
To sing to the deaf, to talk with the dumb, and to dance for the blind are three foolish things.
Coffee should be black as Hell, strong as death, and sweet as love.
Do not tell secrets in front of servants.
Arms and money require good hands.
If someone sweats for you, you change his shirt.
If we don't change our direction we're likely to end up where we're headed.
The one who first shuts up in an argument is from a good family.
It is well to leave off playing when the game is at its best.
When you point your finger at someone, look where the other fingers point.
The hare that escaped had eight legs.
Olives harvested with a heavy staff will produce poor tasting oil.
Love and dignity do not dwell together.
A sad bride makes a glad wife.
When the sun is setting outside so that you cannot even recognise the hand in front of you, go indoors!
When in Rome, do as the Romans.
Rein in the horse at the edge of the cliff.
Never tell tales out of school.
The hearts of fools are in their mouths but the mouths of the wise are in their hearts.
If you tell the truth too early, you are laughed at, too late and you are stoned.
I am in a place where three ways meet.
A man should not be struck when he is down.
There's nothing wrong with charity... As long as it winds up in your pocket.
What was hard to bear is sweet to remember.
A child brought up where there is always dancing cannot fail to dance.
When going to an eating house, go to one that is filled with customers.
To deny everything is to confess everything.
How can you trust anyone who doesn't know how to blush?
What my heart desired didn't happen; what God wanted was really done.
If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity.
Rome was not built in a day.
Cowardice will not prolong life.
Man's extremity, God's opportunity.
Honesty may be dear bought, but can never be an ill pennyworth.
In the land of promise a man may die of hunger.
Blind is the bookless man.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool that to speak and remove all doubt.
He who suffers the bitter will taste the sweet.
‘Tis as hard to see a woman cry, as a goose go barefoot.
As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, so the deepest love turns to the deadliest hatred.
Me do not know hard firewood, but only lops people put aside hard tasks and devote themselves only to easy ones.
When ye ca' the dog out o' your ain kail-yaird, dinna ca't into mine.
Everything in the past died yesterday, and everything in the future is born today.
You have to separate the chaff from the wheat.
For him who does not believe in signs, there is no way to live in the world.
When the reason is known, there will be no more shock.
It is a bad hand that refuses to guard the head.
He whose belly is full believes not him who is fasting.
The door swings both ways.
The snail is coming, who knows when it arrives.
Whoever sows within the vineyard, neither reaps a crop nor harvests grapes.
The one who is looking for a wife doesn't speak contemptuously of women.
A wound will heal. Talk won't.
The wolf loses his teeth, but not his inclination.
I shall speak facts; but some will say I deal in fiction.
We learn by watching and listening.
The rich worry over their money, the poor over their bread.
The customers are known to the shopkeepers.
If the bathroom and a brandy cannot help a man, then death is imminent.
People who drink to drown their sorrows, should be told that sorrow knows how to swim.
All is not butter that comes from the cow.
By trying repeatedly, the monkey learns how to jump from the tree.
With his ears let him listen, and look with his eyes; thus each wise man spies out the way.
He who doesn't speak will get no help from God.
The two hardest things in life to handle are success and failure.
A man can never be perfect in a hundred years; but he may become corrupt in less than a day.
Drive your business, do not let it drive you.
Praise makes a bad man worse.
Scatter with one hand, gather with two.
I own a cow in heaven, but I cannot drink her milk.
Give a thing and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring.
The wedding feast is not made with mushrooms only.
A case is not to be decided from one mouth.
De bes a field mus' hab weed.
May the smile of God light you to glory.
From the leather of others you can cut long strips.
Arrogance costs a fortune.
Catching's before hanging.
When the drink is in, the sense is out.
Don't buy a cat in the sack.
Don't go a-fishing to a famous stream.
The quick one may not win; the enduring one will.
The child led by the hand never learns to walk.
Seeing is different than being told.
A bold attempt is half of success.
East, west, home's best.
Better to lose a little money than a little friendship.
To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of.
A bee stinging a crying face.
Do not look at the tooth of a gift horse.
Mocking is catching.
It's sin and not poverty that makes men miserable.
He who would catch fish must not mind wetting himself.
There are three friends in this world: courage, sense, and insight.
The priest to his book, the peasant to his plough.
If you debark a tree don't expect it to live again; you can only plant another of its kind.
He who makes a fool of himself on account of a woman is well nigh ruined.
Early marriage, long love.
Love came in a paper bag, said the maiden when she got a letter from her sweetheart.
Manners make often fortunes.
Anyone can tame a shrew but he who has her.
Love knows no law.
Between evil tongues and evil ears, there is nothing to choose.
Light gains make a heavy purse.
Let what is on this side of the bank be washed out by the flood, and what is on that side of the bank be carried away by the wind.
Jack is as good as his master.
He who commences many things finishes but few.
Every skin teeth ain't a laugh.
Ill beef ne'er made gude broo.
Make love not war.
They fought with varying success.
The most horrible sight on earth cannot put out the eye.
Water always finds a way out.
As long as I make you to be inferior, I render myself inferior.
It is easy for a man in health to preach patience to the sick.
Speech is often repented, silence never.
We fight to enrich the spirit.
If the hill will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet will go to the hill. (Francis Bacon)
Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; married, an ass.
It is not easy to show the way to a blind man.
Snow made an angel to the hall.
Your appearance is not appropriate for the occasion.
A ship cloaks in order to attack.
Dip your paddle in and join the effort.
Stock-fish are made tender by much beating.
Truthfulness ensures a lasting relationship.
Small pots have ears too.
He who wants a fire must be able to bear smoke.
Always ride your horse in the direction it's going.
Despise learning and make everyone pay for your ignorance.
A tree climber begins from the bottom not the top.
A trapped cat becomes a lion.
Ilk man mend ane, and all will be mendit.
A cat loves fish, but won't risk its claws.
Liars begin by imposing on others, but end by deceiving themselves.
The rivers flow to the ocean.
Messina is clever, Palermo is pompous; Messina is rich, Palermo is greedy.
An inch of time cannot be bought with an inch of gold.
All beginnings are hard, said the thief, and began by stealing an anvil.
Even from a foe a man may learn wisdom.
Every cock will crow upon his own dunghill.
An hour of pain is as long as a day of pleasure.
A gift, though small, is welcome.
A bolt does not always fall when it thunders.
One can cause the illness which he wanted to cure.
Judge each day not by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.
Do not run away from a pond of water.
Before you marry, beware, for it is a knot difficult to untie.
Do ill, and expect the like.
The dog that is quarrelsome and not strong, woe to his hide.
While we pursue happiness, we flee from contentment.
Never answer a letter while you are angry.
Sit, walk, or run, but don't wobble.
All will come out in the washing.
You cannot take a cow from a man who has none.
Thorns bury shallowly into one who walks slowly.
Who has power in his hands has no need to lie; he uses violence.
Health flows from the happiness of the heart.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
To be happy in one's home is better than to be a chief.
Better thin beer than an empty jug.
Shame is forgotten, debts are not.
Laws too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed.
A fool talks of folly.
A thief's hat burns.
Gutta cavat lapidem non bis, sed saepe cadendo; sic homo fit sapiens non bis, sed saepe legendo.
The envious man's face grows lean and his eye swells.
To be without knowledge is to be without light.
Use it up, wear it out, make do with, or do without.
There is one moral duty that moralists underrate almost criminally - the duty to enjoy god's world.
All times are good when old.
Sweet is the wine but sour is the payment.
Knowledge is the sister of folly.
Better a good cow than a cow of a good kind.
There are no greater prudes than those women who have their own dirty secrets to hide.
Where a chest lieth open, a righteous man may sin.
Lack of knowledge is darker than night.
The habit of thinking is the habit of gaining strength.
The smoke of our own country is brighter than fire abroad.
Science is unlimited in its course; life is short.
Words have no bones, but can break bones.
To loan is to buy troubles.
Look to the past to help us move forward in the future.
To forgive a duke his tyranny alters not the total situation.
Every to-morrow brings its bread.
If you put a silk suit on a goat it is still a goat.
The cat is a saint when there are no mice about.
He that runs fast will not run long.
Giving a warning to one who is doomed (i.e. a futile task.)
One dog's piss will not pollute the ocean.
When God sends flour the devil carries off the sack.
more robust than the nose of a lion.
The diamond in your belly sparkles on your face.
Everything that is yellow is not gold.
He gets a tailwind who bothers to wait.
The fish sees the bait not the hook; a man sees not the danger - only the profit.
It is easier to take a couple of drinks than to refuse them.
Quick returns mak rich merchants.
Crows bewail the dead sheep, and then eat them.
A dog will always be a dog, even if he is raised by lions.
No one is as angry as the person who is wrong.
Time and patience change the mulberry leaf to satin.
The woman who loves her husband corrects his faults.
What! keep a dog and bark myself?
If we blink the eyes in order not to see a wicked person, how shall we be able to see a good person?
Trust no one, until you have eaten a peck of salt with him.
If "How are you?" cost a cent, few would hear it.
Every seller praises his wares.
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.
Truth is the daughter of time.
Seeing is believing.
Let the giver be silent and the receiver speak.
Nothing reaches the intellect before making its appearance in the senses.
A rock offered by a friend is like an apple.
It's not possible to go to sky by a ladder.
If the pocket is empty, the judge is deaf.
Silly toad: planning a meal of goose!
Coffee and love taste best when hot.
That that comes of a cat will catch mice.
The blind person is not afraid of ghosts.
After a storm comes fair weather, after sorrow comes joy.
Who eats it won't know the bitterness of the onion, but who chops it does.
Cadgers speaks of lead saddles.
Among twenty four fools not ane wise man.
There's only 2 ways: go cracy, or go extraordinary.
Every one finds sin sweet and repentance bitter.
A person does not seek luck; luck seeks the person.
A small evil may be a great good.
Speak like a parrot; meditate like a swan; chew like a goat; and bathe like an elephant.
Deprive a mirror of its silver and even the czar won't see his face.
A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison.
However you feed the wolf, he still looks at the wood.
He who seeks shall find.
It's the owner of the cow who walks close to her tail.
If you have ploughed with oxen.
Tenderness can be a bad judge.
An animal that gives birth to a young one in the desert must suckle it in the desert.
Jack a dull boy.
A slap in the face now is better than promised candy later.
Tell your friend your secret, and he will set his foot on your neck.
The national anthem of Iceland is known as as "Ó Guð vors lands” which means "God of our Land”.
Even a sheet of paper is lighter when two people lift it.
He who ridicules the good will be overtaken by evil.
Children will tell you what they do, men what they think and older people what they have seen and heard.
He that is always right is always wrong.
Child that has been burnt will understand the danger of fire.
Hospitality is one form of worship.
A mischievous dog must be tied short.
Kind-heartedness and honesty can be expected only from the poor.
None are so blind as those who refuse to see.
What you see is what you believe.
A biting cur wears a torn skin.
Meddle with dirt and some of it will stick to you.
Speak well of your friend; of your enemy say nothing.
The summer moments always pass quickly.
Don't make clothes for a not yet born baby.
When kitchen dresser tumble dung, maaga dog laugh.
How many will listen to the truth when you tell them?
If you want good advice, consult an old man.
About planning ahead.
Do not cease to drink beer, to eat, to intoxicate thyself, to make love, and to celebrate the good days.
They are flies that are born of a wasp.
Brotherly love for brotherly love, but cheese for money.
Children are fooled by telling that there are monsters around the corner.
Weather, husbands, and sons come as you take them.
The cock that loses its pace time of cockadoodle should be dressed otherwise it will misguide you.
A friend is someone who shares your happiness and your pains.
There is no flying without wings.
Force is no argument.
What you say when you're drunk should have been thought about beforehand.
When rogues go in procession the devil carries the cross.
The still sow eats up a' draff.
Life is like child's shirt: short and shitty.
Health without money is a half-malady.
There is weeping when separated, there is quarreling when together.
No one knows what a day may bring forth.
Every meeting is the beginning of a good-bye.
Keep your tongue within your teeth.
It's the quiet pigs that eat the grain.
Throwing the hat at something.
Repentance costs dear.
What a man does by the agency of another is his own act.
The butterfly who settles on a branch is afraid that he will break it.
Hope is the nurse of misery.
A little truth helps the lie go down.
Those who rush things too much, without reflection, can be surpassed by those who take their time.
If you have figs in your knapsack, everyone will want to be your friend.
Honour the old, teach the young.
It's good feasting in another's hall.
Everybody's busy is nobody's business.
Smoke, a dripping roof, and a scolding wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life.
One does not breed a good bitch in her first heat.
The saving man becomes the free man.
You will get furthest with honesty.
Home is not far away when you are alive.
He who lives on hope, dies on shit.
For a taste treat, try tuna roe and thorny cardoons.
Manners maketh man.
A rooster is always bold on its own dunghill .
Haste often causes nasty things.
Every time you have something good there is someone who wants you to throw it so as they can pick it.
One talks against praise in order to hear it once again.
It is not the things in the soup that I am afraid of but perhaps the person I am eating with.
Rooster today, feather duster tomorrow.
Always in love, never married.
The strong live by their own wages; the weak by the wages of their children.
A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam which his mother puts into his palm.
A new broom sweeps well, but the old broom knows all the corners.
The heart is small and embraces the whole wide world.
You are like the man that sought his mare, and he riding on her.
Her left hand doesn't know what her right hand is doing.
Learn to creep before you run.
When thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth.
Lies never pay the toll.
Art is the illusion of spontaneity.
In the end, a man's motives are second to his accomplishments.
The anvil lasts longer than the hammer.
A lazy tailor uses a long thread.
Ne'er cast a clout till May be out.
A man doesn't escape from bees with a lump of honey in his hand.
Cheap things cost a lot of money.
One bad experience is worth more than a thousand threats.
Broken friendships can be soldered, but never sound.
Trust not a sword in the hands of a boy.
The rich man may wear old clothes.
The art of pleasing is the art of deceiving.
Shut your door, and you will make your neighbour good.
Do right and fear no man.
When the sun rises, I go to work. When the sun goes down I take my rest, I dig the well from which I drink, I farm the soil which yields my food, I share creation, Kings can do no more.
A devil takes one and makes two, a saint takes two and makes one.
There are many lies but barely one truth.
When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
For a flying enemy make a golden bridge.
All is not tint that is in peril.
A princely mind will undo a private family.
If you want to beat a dog, say he eat your iron.
Nobody throws a lance if he has no target.
A pearl is worthless as long as it is still in its shell.
Who herds with wolves, must howl with wolves.
Lawyers and painters can soon make what's black, white.
Whither goest thou, sorrow? Whither I am used to go.
A pig used to dirt turns its nose up at rice.
Pride that dines on vanity sups on contempt.
They don't swing fists when the fight is over.
When you're a stranger in a land, if good comes to it may you have you share and if bad comes let it go to the owners of the land who know what gods should be appeased.
Many a true word in spoken in jest.
A different man, a different taste.
Fortune is round; it makes one a king, another a dunghill.
A hearth of your own is worth gold.
Who is careless will be unhappy.
The corn will bend but it still ends up in the mill.
Call a woman a harlot and you make her one.
A man changing his abode is like a woman marrying.
Who would be rich, must keep his soul under cover of his cash-box.
Words will not pollute the soup.
A beautiful wife without money is like a fine house without furniture.
Even the fountains thirst.
The wolf changes only his coat -- not his character.
The one who digs a hole for another will fall in it himself.
Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool.
Death is not found behind mountains but right behind our shoulders.
He must stand high that would see the end of his own destiny.
A threatened buffet is never well given.
No stopping the force of a going wheel by hand.
One catches the hare, another eats it.
Fine dressing is a foul house, swept before the windows.
By telling our woes we often assuage them.
The driver of an ass must by necessity know its wind.
It is easy to be liberal out of another man's purse.
A full belly is not the stomach of a scholar.
The anger of a woman is mighty and the devil's trickery weak.
He was snatched by the belt.
Good repute is better than a golden belt.
An udara fruit that falls by the roadside must want to be picked up and eaten.
Curses are like processions: they return to whence they set out.
If the North Wind takes to blowing, it will rain for a week.
There is enmity between to dig and to let dig.
Talk little and well, and you will be looked upon as somebody.
Man learns little from success, but much from failure.
He was carved of hard wood.
No one takes away anything with him.
It is only the eagle that can give an account of the whisper of the cloud.
The wise man will be cheated only once.
A woman is like a lemon; you squeeze her and throw her away.
Man who wants pretty nurse, must be patient.
Custom rules the law.
"Namibia, Land of the Brave” is the national anthem of Namibia.
Even in the tiniest little chapel there are some prayers said once a year.
It is an unthinking man who achieves prosperity, and then finds with time, that his body can no longer pass through the door.
The daughter-in-law wipes away what the mother-in-law has seen.
A suspicious mind sees everything on the dark side.
People meet each other, mountains never do.
From the well of envy, only a fool drinks the water.
As hot as hell.
One scabbed sheep will infect a whole flock.
He don't care if good friday come pon a sunday.
Who has time yet waits for time, comes to a time of repentance.
He who wants to jump high must take a long run.
No one can guard against treachery.
The spot will come out in the washing.
What johny wont learn, john wont know.
The glory of ancestors should not prevent a man winning glory for himself.
Faith without works is dead.
He talks like a sausage without the fat.
It is impossible to find a man who has everything, but it is possible tofind one who enjoys the things he has.
Do not dress in clothes made of leaves when going to put out a fire.
He that has not bread to spare should not keep a dog.
The lazy ox drinks dirty water.
A chief in the village never sees the devil.
They that envy others are their inferiors.
The rope breaks where it is thinnest.
Ask for advice, and then use your brain.
The reputation of a thousand years may be determined by the conduct of one hour.
I speak of garlic, you reply about onions. [I speak of one thing, you reply what is wholly irrelevant.].
A man comes from dust & in dust he will end.
A Party member is an active person.
Every man is sociable until a cow invades his garden.
In the long run even a dog will compromise with the cat.
Who reminds of the past and recall what has been will have his ear cut off.
Don't wait for an anthill to build up in your mushroom better attack its origin sooner than later.
Treachery and slander are long lived.
One head cannot hold all wisdom.
He covers me with his wings, and bites me with his bill.
The first will get the credit, even if the second is better.
Against stupidity; God Himself is helpless.
The white coat does not make the miller.
No fly gets into a shut mouth.
It is hard to sail over the sea in an egg-shell.
If you keep on talking, you will end up saying what you didn't intend to say.
A man who has learned much is rich.
It is hard even for the most selfish man to eat fish in the darkness.
If it moves, salute it; if it doesn't move, pick it up; and if you can't pick it up, paint it.
To get through the hardest journey we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping.
Make the amount of sauce you use correspond to the amount of rice you have.
One man alone is prey to the wolf.
Small evils hatch quick.
The mother-in-law shows you her thighs without shame, you are the embarrassed one.
A house without books is like a room without windows.
As to tastes, nothing is written.
Abstinence and fasting cure many a complaint.
Art holds fast when all else is lost.
Stretch your legs according to your coverlet.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
In your own company no one is boss.
It is not the thunder that causes the rain.
Home affairs are not talked about on the public square.
Не that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
Fortune favors the bold, but abandons the timid.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
When you bear a grudge, your child will also bear a grudge.
Whoever waits for time to pass loses time.
The borrower is servant to the lender.
When your wine is finished, conversation ends; when your money has been spent, you lose your friends.
Every ass loves to hear himself bray.
There's no making a donkey drink against his will.
On a long journey even a straw is heavy.
To have "Heard say” is half a lie.
Nought is never in danger.
Don't carry your head too high, the door is low.
Nobody is a prophet in his own country.
Free ships, free goods.
Cowards may die many times before their death.
The dead are soon forgotten.
Destroy a country, but its mountains and rivers remain.
The chemist doesn't smell his own medicine.
Pride often apes humility.
Doing is better than saying.
Do not teach a pike to swim, a pike knows his own science.
A cursed cur should be short tied.
What does not happen in a year may happen in a moment.
A talkative person is a traveller when he is tired, he keeps quiet.
Good chear, and good cheap, garres many haunt the House.
He who is too sure of himself and acts without thinking is heading for his downfall.
There is not a tree in Heaven that is higher than the tree of patience.
To marry one is a duty; twice a folly; thrice is madness.
Talking is silver, silence is gold.
No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger.
The eye is blind if the mind is absent.
To give quickly is a great virtue.
He that seeks a horse or a wife without fault, has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed.
Laws are silent in time of war.
It's not the fault of the indian, but of he who makes of the indian his friend.
Ambition and revenge are always hungry.
Make sure to be in with your equals if you're going to fall out with your superiors.
Money is the key that opens all locks.
Better give a penny than lend twenty.
Kind words are worth much and they cost little.
Take heed of enemies reconciled, and of meat twice boiled.
Let deeds match words.
Ston a riva battan nuh know sun hat.
Make sure you leave some fat for the other side.
If you go to your in-laws you do not come back empty handed but with a cock.
One justice can overpower a hundred evils.
Keep quiet and people will think you a philosopher.
Whoever seeds fava beans without using fertilizer, shouldn't count on having much to eat.
Fallen leaves return to the root.
Don't judge a horse by its harness.
Men look more like their uncles on the mother's side.
Eat as much beef as you can.
The will is the soul of the work.
Flies know well the sweet seller's beard.
Words from the heart reach the heart, words from the mouth reach the ear.
Fear the worse.
Neither rhyme nor harmony.
An enemy may chance to give good counsel.
You are blaming the hawk, the falcon is killing the chickens.
From the cemetery no one is brought back.
Beware of the vulcan greed for knowledge.
Whoever argues for the sake of argument is a boor.
Words of wisdom comes out of simple people mouths.
A good Goose indeed, but she hes an ill gansell.
Water has leaked under her/his skin.
Anger is the mother of treachery.
It may be a fire today, but tomorrow it will be only ashes.
You can't take a step that's longer than your legs.
The casket opened in a simple way.
If you haven't any sheep you won't know that a fox is a wild animal.
If you beat my drum, I will blow your whistle.
A drowning man would catch at razors.
Asking question is the only way to learn.
Everyone cries with their eyes.
One hand washes the other, both hands wash the face.
It is hard to sail without wind, and to grind without water.
Even pulling a fish out of the pond requires some effort.
Many men are like clocks that show one hour and strike another.
Life without a friend is death without a witness.
Old men are twice children.
Old saints don't get incense anymore.
Quhen the cup is fullest, bear it evenest.
Whatever is said in Latin sounds profound.
It's never too late.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
Evil gun powder doesn't go away easily.
Two men quarreling do not share the same seat on a canoe.
If a fool borrows a book, cut off his hand; but cut off both hands, of the fool who brings it back.
Having given your word, be strong; not having done it, try not to promise.
Yes and no rule the world.
The devil takes a hand in what is done in haste.
He who risks nothing can gain nothing.
Rats plotting: problems with flour.
Two barrels of tears will not heal a bruise.
A good companion shortens the longest road.
Who bows to might loses his right.
One who would quarrel about goats' wool.
Who pays a debt creates capital.
Consider how long the winter will last.
Who will not be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock.
It is good to hold the clothes of one who is swimming.
Those who think they can't are generally right.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Ill air slays sooner than the sword.
Don't give cherries to a pig; don't give advice to a fool.
He who has a mind to beat a dog will easily find a stick.
Paper does not blush.
A bird may be known by its song.
What eyes don´t see, heart doesn´t hurt.
It is advantageous to follow advice, for you will succeed in life.
Be kind to the debtor and he becomes the creditor.
Only live fish swim up stream.
You need firm care to cure deep melancholy.
The praise of a thousand jesters counts for nothing against the reprimand of one wise man.
There is no need to fasten a bell to a fool, he is sure to tell his own tale.
If it's wrong to eat the devil, it's wrong to drink his broth.
Self -- love is the worst of all flattery.
Scratch people where they itch.
He that cuts above himself, will get splinters in his eye.
Possession is nine tenths of the law.
Though pepper is a tiny thing, its taste is mighty powerful.
The earth is a giant cooking pot and men are the meat therein.
A severely under paid hungry teacher.
He who has money can eat ice cream in hell.
A stout heart crushes some ill luck.
Give your friend a pig and your enemy a peach.
Always know what your buying.
In the shop of the sightless jeweller, the ruby and pebble are one.
He who has a mouth, goes to Rome.
You cannot have your cake and eat it.
With lightning and with love, the clothes sound, the heart burned.
A cabin with plenty of food is better than a hungry castle.
Love is paid with love.
When bull ole him feed a fence side.
There's nothing so queer as folk.
Bit by bit, in the end it becomes a hill.
Experience teaches fools.
The Sea has decided to drown itself in the river.
Begin to weave and God will give the thread.
The river won't get dirty just by the dog's bark.
On a green tree there are many parrots.
Those who are choosy often pick the worst.
There is no choosing between two things of no value.
A fool is ever laughing.
When the old dog barks, it gives counsel.
Patience cures many an old complaint.
Even if a monkey wears a golden ring, it is and remains an ugly thing.
A house full of people is filled with different points of view.
He who grasps at much holds fast little.
The voyager's path is marked by the stars and not the sand dunes.
Everything troubles you and the cat breaks your heart.
Не that never climbed, never fell.
Eat drink and be merry.
The cow gives good milk, but kicks over the pail.
When falkland hill puts on his cap, the howe o' fife will get a drap, and when the bishop draws his cowl, look out for wind and weather fowl.
The pebble in the brook secretly thinks itself a precious stone.
Rowing with the oars you posess.
My money, your money, let us go to the tavern.
Literally: Go out for a day, get a full basket of knowledge.
He wanted to cure a healthy pig and ended up with a sick one.
Good advice is beyond all price.
Better a ruined than a lost land.
Saying is one thing, and doing another.
Quhen the Play is best, it is best to lear.
They look at the greens, but steal the bacon.
Nothing is so new as what has long been forgotten.
Great boast. little roast.
After all, every man is the son of a woman.
Unbending the bow does not heal the wound.
A man has learned much who has learned how to die.
Dreams are wishes your heart makes.
The pike grows big on small fry.
You inherit from the dead, not from the sick.
No fence is built for the eyes.
Honey in his mouth, knives in his heart.
He dotes on his midden and thinks it the moon.
A wind can move the branches of trees but it will never move the head of a man.
Life-time, live, life-time, all the same you will die as stupid.
Too much politeness conceals deceit.
Feed the raven and he'll peck out your eyes.
One man's death is another man's life.
Never send a boy to do a man's job.
A good servant makes a good master.
Smooth hands love the labor of others.
A barber learns to shave by shaving fools.
Best to learn from other people's injury.
A forgetful head makes a weary pair of heels.
Practise what you preach.
Like to die mends not the Kirkyard.
After the fight both parties give each other a good smack.
Philosophy means being able to explain why you are happy when you are poor.
All do not bite that show their teeth.
Success has many fathers, while failure is an orphan.
The peasant is like the monk in many ways.
The drunk ones will sober up, but the mad ones will not clever up.
Innocence itself sometimes hath need of a mask.
May the witches ride off with your manhood him.
Happy the generation where the great listen to the small.
The crime accuses itself.
The glass-dealer's horses fell out, and he looked on to see which kicked hardest.
If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does.
Old hens make good broth.
Who saves, saves for the cat.
If one is not in a hurry, even an egg will start walking.
Three Spaniards, four opinions.
Let them laugh that win.
Even the loftiest of mountains begins on the ground.
Even a cat is a lion in her own lair.
The sea becomes the shore, the shore becomes the sea.
An ill servant ne'er prov'd a good master.
The cure for anything is salt water - sweat, tears, or the sea.
A bad neighbor will give you a needle with no thread.
Keep your ears open.
We learn the value of things more in their loss than in their enjoyment.
Shared joy is double joy.
Where the ship goes the brig can go.
You may as well give a good beating as a bad one.
Stinginess demeans the value of man.
He has not done who is beginning.
He who takes his rank lightly raises his own dignity.
Lovely flowers fade fast.
He who cannot cut the bread evenly cannot get on well with people.
If we stand tall it is because we stand on the backs of those who came before us.
Don't bless the fish till it gets to the land.
Fever sustains the sick.
The world will not find rest by just saying "peace.”.
Every one's faults are not written in their foreheads.
Truth finds foes, where it makes none.
Long standing, and little offering, makes a poor price.
Take care of your pennies and your dollars will take care of your widow's next husband.
Reconciled friendship is like a badly healed wound.
Every little yielding to anxiety is a step away from the natural heart of man.
Unplowed fields make hollow bellies; unread books make hollow minds.
Discipline awaits he who leaves his path.
In a trade someone always loses.
The well fed person doesn't understand the hungry one.
I have no friends; I make my mind my friend.
Blind eyes see better than blind hearts.
Alas! father, another daughter is born to you.
Take from the hungry, give it to the full/satisfied.
As one makes his bed, that way he shall lie down.
Wine will not keep in a foul vessel.
Cowgirl Up Cos The Buckle Don't Shine in The Dirt.
By slow degrees the bird builds his nest.
A proud pauper and a rich miser are contemptible beings.
Gather and spare can last long.
A drop of luck is worth a cask of wisdom.
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.
Venture a small fish to catch a much greater one.
One who cannot respect himself cannot respect another.
Always taking Out of the meal-tub, and never putting in, soon comes to the bottom.
You are so many times a human how many languages you know.
The crab that walks miles too far will fall into the pot.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all sit near him.
There is measure in all things.
The forest has an ear, the field has an eye.
When water stays for long it stinks.
And his trouble is just as it was.
He who rows goes far.
There is no right way to do a wrong thing.
It is one's self knows best where the boot is pressing on the foot.
To smell one's own bosom is fit.
There lies often falsehood beneath a pretty skin.
Wont beguil'd the Lady.
If fools ate no bread, corn would be cheap.
A ragged colt may make a good horse.
To go beyond is as bad as to fall short.
You recognize the saint by his miracle.
Those who counsel do not pay.
One eye in the corner is sharper than two about the house.
Even the sharpest ear cannot hear an ant singing.
Difficulties teach a man.
He cannot lead a good life who serves without wages.
If it doesn't have water for me, instead it has bread for you.
There is neither wisdom nor courage in an empty belly.
When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height.
To beards with money cavaliers pay respect.
Many flowers, few fruits.
He who is born a fool is never cured.
Mother's truth keeps constant youth.
Often the best way to give oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has.
It is an ugly bird that defiles its own nest.
The greatest poorness is the lack of brains.
Each day has enough of its own misery.
Even an ass will not fall twice in the same quicksand.
Why would a man without a bow look for arrows?
The man who comes with a tale about others has himself an ax to grind.
Soft water on hard rock, beats so much that it perforates it.
Roof tiles are positioned to face downwards so that husbands and wives can be left alone.
Those who take medicine and neglect their diet waste the skill of the physician.
The best ointment comes in small boxes.
A woman's vengeance knows no bounds.
A liar should have a good memory.
Sometimes one has to light a candle for the devil too.
Take part of the pelf when the pack is a dealing.
All that's yellow is not gold, and all white things are not eggs.
Always it is the brave ones who die.
Blood and water don't mix.
He drinks like a fish.
He who goes to Our Lady of Muxima with an evil heart risks being drowned crossing the river to get there.
A diplomat is a man who always remembers a woman's birthday but never her age.
Behind every able man, there are always other able men.
If a rich man steals it is a mistake; if a poor man makes a mistake he has stolen.
Heavy purses and light hearts can sustain much.
Good things are hot.
In a breadless home, everyone complains and nobody is right.
One quill is better in the hand than seven geese upon the strand.
You can drive sixty miles a minute, but there is no future in it.
When a thing is done, advice comes too late.
It's the deaf people that create the lies.
The point of the thorn is small, but hw who has felt it does not forget it.
Let the big dog eat.
It's ill takkin corn frae geese.
Ask me what are my virtues, not about the color of my skin.
The grown-up pays attention to what you are doing; the child sees beyond that.
Don't mortgage the future for the present.
Rust cannot do any harm to gold.
A bald man carries a comb.
The most destructive criticism is indifference.
Crows do not peck out crow's eyes.
If relatives help each other, what harm can be done to them?
Work earns a living but trade makes you rich.
A new thing does not come to she who sits, but to she who travels.
Three that come unbidden – love, jealousy and fear.
He who steals an egg will steal a camel.
A father voodoos with his son and a mother voodoos with her daughter.
If you are wise, look after your house; love your wife without alloy.
Eyes can see widely: they can cross a river in full flood.
You sometimes forget the harm that was done to you, but never the harm you have done to others.
A deer tethered with a golden chain can escape to the forest to eat grass.
In the house where there are two girls, the cats die of thirst.
Reason to attack: poverty.
Life is like a ballet performance - danced only once.
We must all eat a peck of dirt before we die.
Fond of lawsuits, little wealth; fond of doctors, little health; fond of friars, little honour.
The well-dressed woman draws her husband away from another woman's door.
He labours in vain who tries to please everybody.
He who shows a passion tells his enemy where he may hit him.
That's the last straw.
One must ask the delight of opium from one that smokes it.
God grant you good fortune, my son, for knowledge avails you little.
Like hen, like chicken.
A thistle is a fat salad for an ass's mouth.
Misfortune, wood, and hair, grow throughout the year.
An unpleasant guest is as welcome as salt to a sore eye.
Don't catch a leopard by the tail, but if you do, don't let it go.
What the child hears at the fireside is soon known at the parish church.
Prosperity makes freinds, adversity tries them.
Those who do not listen to the voice of the elderly are like trees without roots.
Booze makes what beer doesn't know.
Loquacity and lying are cousins.
Whatever the type of firewood found in a place, it is usually good enough for the people of that place to cook with.
A book is like a garden in the pocket.
When the words are said, the holy water is made.
A bad habit is like fire you can't play with it and expect not to get burnt.
If your conduct be noble, you will be a king.
Treachery will eventually betray itself; though wary enough at first.
As good eat the devil as the broth he was boiled in.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Grief unspoken turns to poison.
In calm water every ship has a good captain.
Debt is beautiful after repaid.
The best cure for drunkenness is to observe a drunken person when you are sober.
If you have a sore eye wipe it with your elbow.
Saints sleep three hours, merchants sleep five, ordinary people seven and the lazy sleep nine.
Scarcity sets the price.
When weeds invade the land, it means the owner is absent.
In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty.
Idleness moves so slowly that it will be overtaken by misery.
Who has honey on his tongue has poison in his mind.
God is the friend of both the simple guy and the leper.
Money buys everything but good sense.
Nothing is more like an honest man than a rogue.
Talking about bulls is altogether different from being in the arena.
The north wind is a satisfying wind; the south wind is harmful to man. The east wind is a rain-bearing wind; the west wind is greater than those who live there. The east wind is a wind of prosperity, the friend of Naram-Suen.
Everybody laughs in the same language.
He draws water over his own rice field.
Fight only when you can win; move away when you cannot.
If a centipede loses a leg, it does not prevent him from walking.
If you want to fight fire, you don't wear a skirt made of dry grass.
It is not the clothes that count, but the things the clothes cover.
Noh care how boar hog try fi hide under sheep wool, ‘im grunt always betray ‘im.
Sweep in front of your own door.
Sharing and giving are the ways of God.
Nobody knows who is he, even if he is under his father's ears.
Everyone pushes a falling fence.
Courage is the father of success.
A man is not old until his regrets take the place of his dreams.
If you don't understand it with a wink, you certainly will with a blow.
Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold.
A bad hair cut is two people's shame.
In language there is life, in language there is death.
Wounds pain most when grown cool.
The plough gets not well if the ploughman hold it not.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
Cat makes kittens fighting.
The trees do not grow up to the sky.
Wait and see.
The real owners of the land are not yet born.
It is no shame at all to work for money.
By candle light, neither women nor cloth.
Birds of prey do not flock together.
Make the night night, and the day day, and you will have a pleasant time of it.
When the fox wants to catch geese, he wags his tail.
The wise man keeps his own counsel.
Whilst we drink, prank ourselves, with wenches daily, Old age upon's at unawares doth sally.
A person who arrives at a feast does not know what was endured by others.
Wine makes glad the heart of man.
People slander somebody even if they do not despise him.
A kindness bestowed on the good is never thrown away.
We will be grateful to flowers only if they have born fruits.
When money speaks the truth is silent.
His eggs hae a' twa yolks.
None reaches further than his arms reach.
Happy wife, happy life.
A market is not held for the sake of one person.
The doctor has a remedy for everything but poverty.
Like greeting, on arrival, like answer.
Sudden glory soon goes out.
In a calm sea, every man is a pilot.
A good cavalier never lacks a lance.
After death, say holy.
Eat, drink and be merry.
Do not neglect the undoing for the setting.
The tongue of experience utters the most truth.
Nobody mourns an unnoticed death.
To die while serving the empire is the hope of every klingon.
He who is destined for the gallows will not be drowned.
A good priest learns until his death.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
You may get something off a bone, but nothing off a stone.
What harm is there in a good word? It costs nothing.
To the grave a pall, and that's all.
One who sees something good must narrate it.
Silence is the sign of agreement.
He that fishes afore the net, long e're he fish get.
Pigs and children will turn out the way you teach them.
Caked with mud.
Gifts make friendship lasting.
To open a shop is easy -- the hard part is keeping it open.
He is not free who drags his chain after him.
Love makes the owl seem prettier than a white falcon.
The poor ones give their alms in a humble way, the rich man throws them down with contempt.
The big game often appears when the hunter has given up the hunt for the day.
In God we trust; all others pay cash.
When two poor men help each other, God laughs.
Who is generous is lazy, who is angry is diligent.
A camel is not a animal and an arab is not a human being.
The hen tells the cock to crow.
Beauty is a good letter of introduction.
By speedy, not by slow measures.
You cannot win a lottery without buying a ticket.
Fortune's wheel is ever turning.
Of the wealth of the world each has as much as they take.
If there is room in your heart there is room in your house.
Work makes the workman.
Ask no questions and hear no lies.
The house of envy lies in the lowest hollows, golden, sunless, breathed upon by no wind, grim and filled full of inert chill, and lacking warmth, is always roiled in fog.
A crow does not louse the buffalo to clean him but to feed himself.
Leave no nail unclenched.
Real happiness is found not in doing the things you like to do, but in liking the things you have to do.
Cross the loud river but don't cross the silent one.
In winter a fire is better than a muscat blossom.
Rich people cook their food in a potsherd.
Do not wake one who is sleeping; you will fall asleep yourself.
Don't put all you eggs in one basket.
Be sure that the candle is lit before you throw away the match.
Never say no due to pride, or yes due to weakness.
The laughter of someone pining for his beloved is like that of someone who is always crying.
Time has a forelock, but is bald behind.
It is not to be argued that the abuse of a thing proves that it is useless.
Beauty and honesty seldom agree.
Greed and envy are good neighbors.
Don't chat on the phone - a talker is a great find for a spy.
Our pillow should be our counsellor. [Sleep upon an idea.].
Et is ken Ding sau schlimm, et is boo gut für.
Do not judge the book by its cover.
Of other mens leather, men take large whangs.
There'll be white blackbirds before an unwilling woman ties the knot.
More corn grows in crooked rows.
Do not buy a carrier's ass, or marry an innkeeper's daughter.
There is no coat big enough to hide both poverty and drunkenness.
The pitcher goes so long to the well that it breaks at last.
When you begin to understand the situation, you know you must have been ill-informed.
It would be good to have two mouths and speak to yourself with both.
Once you have decided to hit someone, then hit them hard because the retribution will be the same whether you hit hard or not.
Savings are the first gain.
Who gives what he has before he is dead, take a mallet and knock that fool on the head.
You talk to a wall.
Where will is right, law is banished.
Make sure to send a lazy man for the Angel of Death.
You should know what's being cooked in the kitchen otherwise you might eat a forbidden food.
An eel by his tail, an Irishman at his word.
The pear does not fall far from the tree.
They who come from afar are prone to lie.
A miss by an inch is a miss by a mile.
No one knows for whom they work.
It's better to sleep on the floor in an incense shop than in a bed in a fishmarket.
When the water level decreases, the ice will crack.
A year of snow, a year of plenty.
After the act wishing is in vain.
Daughters are easy to rear, but hard to marry.
It is a wise man who can laugh at his own jokes.
The one who left, lost his place.
Talk is cheap.
Girl, do not exult in thy wedding dress; see how much trouble lurks behind it.
Sailors get to know each other better when there is a storm.
Your wife and your wheelbarrow are two things that you should never lend to anyone.
Acorns were good till bread was found.
Make not the sauce till you have caught the fish.
There are plenty of preachers who don't hear themselves.
Dogs delight to bark and bite for God has made them so.
There's a cause of everything.
I would rather have a donkey that can carry me than a horse that throws me.
To him who puts a cord around his neck, God will supply someone to pull it.
Don't marry a good-looking bride for you'll have to watch her.
Having a good discussion is like having riches.
The hasty bitch gives birth to blind puppies.
Saying that it's for her child, she gets herself a loaf of bread.
Happiness requires something to love and something to hope for.
Among the blind, the squint rules.
Put out the fire betimes, ere it reach the roof.
After honor and state follow envy and hate.
The heart of a wise man lies quiet like clear water.
He is worth his weight in gold. (16th century)
Their dogs don't hunt in couples.
He who denies the cat bread has his clothes eaten by mice.
There is no pleasure that does not pall, the more so if it costs nothing.
A man without a knife, is a man without a life.
He that has no head, need no hat.
It is not the destination that is important, but the journey there.
Even the high and noble bow before the barber.
To kill two birds with one stone.
Like soap for the body so are tears for the soul.
Men fated to be happy need not haste.
You must live within your sacred truth.
Many Aunts, many Eames, many kin, and few friends.
To see a friend no road is too long.
Sour wine, old bacon, and rye bread keep a house rich.
The innkeeper loves the drunkard, but not for a son-in-law.
Who can't pretend cannot govern.
Let each do his share of the work.
Feet accustomed to go cannot be still.
Fair words break no bones.
A christmas of games, an easter by the fire.
The mouth prays to Buddha, but the heart is full of evil.
He who gives alms to the poor faces heaven.
The old should be treated with due respect. Children should be treated with gentleness.
When the hunting dog barks it's a signal that the prey is near.
It is not the cook's fault when the cassava turns out to be hard and tasteless.
Better to bend than to break.
The opportunity makes the thief.
By staying always in the same place one gets lice.
The "Marching Song” (Tiến Quân Ca) is the national anthem of Vietnam.
A heart that is rotten -- breath that smells.
God is in the details and so is the devil.
Birth, ancestry, and that which you yourself have not achieved can hardly be called your own.
No Work, no Dinner.
A fine rain still soaks you to the bone, but no one takes it seriously.
February has seven hats.
In wartime no sweets are given out.
Marry the girl of a good family though she be seated on a mat, very poor.
Who has a head of wax should not be in the sunshine.
An old rat won't go into the trap.
An old cart well used may outlast a new one abused.
Touching the earth equates to having harmony with nature.
Bite the biter.
Life is beautiful if it is hectic.
Cut down the tree that you are able to.
Sow not money on the sea, lest it sink.
Much bran and little meal.
Ears do not grow higher than the head.
Never ask a fox to mind the hens.
Speech is oft repented, silence seldom.
Gold's father is dirt, yet it regards itself as noble.
You will never be punished for making people die of laughter.
Misreckoning is no payment.
He who pours water hastily into a bottle spills more than goes in.
Poets are born, not made.
Even good tree has, sometimes bad fruit.
Many candles can be kindled from one candle without diminishing it.
Some birds are not meant to be caged there feathers are to blight and there meant to fly.
If you don't have a plan for yourself, you'll be a part of someone else's.
A hen's curses have never killed the eagle.
Think before you speak.
He who is unable is always willing.
Fine and fine make but a slender doublet.
In the courtroom of the conscience, a case is always in progress.
Who starts with small will end up with big.
Take the will for the deed.
If you persevere, you will reap the fruits of your labor.
An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend.
Prudence availeth more than strength.
A single conversation across the table with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
Even the most expensive clock still shows sixty minutes in every hour.
The paunch warm, the foot sleepy.
Pears and women are the sweetest in the parts that are heaviest.
Two things cannot be hidden: being astride a camel and being pregnant.
Life's not all beer and skittles.
Silence is more than just a lack of words.
What is not understood by what is less understood.
Anyone can be trapped.
Even food can attack.
Live not beyond your means.
Love's plant must be watered with tears, and tended with care.
The nobler the blood, the less the pride.
Who wants heat, must endure the smoke.
One lie draw ten after it.
Tell not all you know, all you have, or all you can do.
The eyes of the bat are hurt by the light.
The more haste, the less speed.
The absent get further off every day.
If you are in a hurry you will never get there.
He fell with his nose in the butter.
Speaks outside his teeth.
An old dog can't get used to chains.
There is no such thing as bad food when you are really hungry.
Egotist: a person of low taste, more interested in himself than in me. (Ambrose Bierce)
If there is no caviar one eats porridge.
Married people need a home of their own.
Every miller draws the water to his own mill.
He who builds and he who marries are never safe.
A guest and a fish start reeking on the third day.
The wrath of brothers is the wrath of devils.
Those who can't dance say the music is no good.
Folly is the most incurable of maladies.
He who would travel through the land, must go with open purse in hand.
Bribery is the enemy of justice.
In every village, there is a path that leads to the mill.
The fox can lose his fur but not his cunning.
Scratch first, itch later.
A rainy morn oft brings a pleasant day.
One cannot strip two hides from one fox.
What is done under the four moons need never be recalled nor regretted.
A shamefaced man seldom acquires wealth.
When god will punish, he will first take away the understanding.
Good words and bad deeds deceive both wise and simple.
He who came to work never sleeps.
Courtesy that is all on one side cannot last long.
Patience and forbearance make a bishop of his reverence.
Many make the descent to eternal darkness but few ascend to heaven.
Complaining is the weak's weapon.
He who is carried on another's back does not appreciate how far off the town is.
He is rich enough that wants nothing.
It is difficult to steal when the boss is a thief.
It is better one time to see things than one hundred times to hear about them.
Justice knows no friendship.
Do not teach a learned person.
Chickens don't praise their own soup.
No matter how bad a child is, he is still good for a tax deduction.
The more you stroke the cat's back the more set sets up her tail.
Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop, only a few sit down to his table.
May your anger set with the sun and not rise again with it.
He who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord.
What is sweet in the mouth is not always good in the stomach.
There is no point in offering a helping hand to someone who wants to drown.
Tis better to be a coward than fool-hardie.
There are two sides to every story -- and then there's the truth.
There are no old friendships in business.
Counsel is as welcome to him as a shoulder of mutton to a sick horse.
When money is taken freedom is forsaken.
When the hand is clean, It needs no screen.
Don't take any wooden nickles.
Beware a rickety wall, a savage dog, and a quarrelsome person.
Bad planning on your part does not constitute an emergency on my part.
Where you will sit when you are old shows where you stood in youth.
Character is what you are in the dark when no one else is around.
It is easy to set a cask a rolling. [To influence a fool.].
One frog spoilt all the water.
Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper.
Hear, see, and say nothing if you would live in peace.
A cleaved head no longer plots.
You can't teach an old dog how to gnaw a bone.
Fat fries and burns itself.
The more you study, the more you know. The more you know, the more you forget. The more you forget, the less you know. The less you know, the more you study.
With violets and goats' milk anoint your face, and every king's son in the world will be after you.
Wherever there is a pretty spot, the devil plants a monastery or a lord.
Count your blessings, not your problems.
Stroke your dog, and he'll spoil your clothes.
One does not like hot, the other does not like cold; make it tepid to make an agreement.
The appetite comes during a meal.
It is easier to fill a rogue's belly than his eye.
Not everyone who sits in the seat of honor is master.
Lovers' fights, double loves.
Most adults are attentive to what someone is doing, but children see beyond that.
The end is good, everything is good.
It's like catching 2 eels at a time.
He has need rise betimes that would please everybody.
The greatest conqueror is he who overcomes the enemy without a blow.
A lazy person with a nephwe does not eat dry rice.
You have lent and not recovered; and if recovered, not so much; and if so much, not such; and if such, a mortal enemy.
Boden gear stinks.
If the potato misses, Ireland's beaten.
He who would make a golden door must add a nail to it daily.
Any book you open will benefit your mind.
It may be easier to perceive error than to find truth.
If a fool borrows a book cut off his hand; but cut off both.
It's a great advantage to love someone in your neighborhood: you see each other often and you don't have to travel.
The first sin makes the bed for the second.
A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows every corner.
Would you shear a donkey for wool!
In a fire, both green and dry wood burn.
The force which a body at rest exercises on a body in motion impinging upon it. [Stolid immobility or masterly inactivity.].
When a fox preaches, take care of your geese.
Some pray to the gods only when in trouble.
Prudent pauses forward business.
For a good appetite there is no hard bread.
The ass dead, the corn at his tail.
If a man be great, even his dog will wear a proud look.
Bare is a brotherless behind.
Think not on what you lack as much as on what you have.
To be able to curse once a day improves happiness and lengthens life.
An old lie is often more popular than a new truth.
The world goes as men make it go; and men are free to make it go otherwise, if they have the courage.
The eye never forgets what the heart has seen.
The flow of water and the future of human beings are uncertain.
A red apple invites stones.
Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over.
There is no eel so small but it hopes to become a whale.
Absence sharpens love, presence strengthens it.
What is true by firelight is not always true by daylight.
The cat has nine lives: three for playing, three for straying, three for staying.
Better an ounce of luck than a pound of gold.
The man with one wife is the boss of all bachelors.
It little avails the unfortunate to be brave.
Only thin dogs become wild.
Necessity makes the frog jump.
Necessity teaches naked woman to spin.
At a hunting expedition you cannot apportion the meat before you kill the animal.
Let the dog bark at me, so he don't bite me.
Bastard brood are aye proud.
To him who watches, everything reveals itself.
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
It is the bait that lures, not the fisherman or the rod.
A man does not wander far from where his corn is roasting.
He that's long a giving, knows not how to give.
Little by little and bit by bit.
Small tree trunks can make the cart turn over.
Lower your voice and strengthen your argument.
A perfect whipping-top for changing sides.
In order to judge another's feelings, remember your own.
Practice makes the master.
If the wolf had stayed in the wood there would have been no hue and cry after him.
There is no pain greater than the pain of rejection.
Iron not used soon rusts.
When the ox is at the slaughterhouse everyone comes running with their knives.
He! He! He! You begin with the meal before the water is boiling!
You cannot tie up a dog with a chain of sausages.
That which leaks cannot stay full.
If a monkey is amongst dogs, why won't it start barking?.
Easy to say is hard to do.
After the ship has sunk, everyone knows how she might have been saved.
It is not the big oxen that do the best day's work.
Embrace the snake and it will bite you.
A finger's length in a sword, and a palm in a lance, are a great advantage.
True friendship does not freeze in the winter.
De higher de monkey climb, de more he does show he tail.
One must have to wait till the evening of one's life time to know what gratitude to pay to one's guardian spirit.
Night is the mother of advice.
A great fortune in the hands of a fool is a great misfortune.
The thief does not gossip about his accomplice.
A person who talks a lot is sometimes right.
When elephants fight, it is the grass who suffers.
The snake and the crab don't sleep in the same hole.
Condemn a man within earshot; praise him at a distance.
Good wine is milk for the aged.
Salt doesn't say it's salty.
Proverbs are the library of history.
No matter how much milk a cow has, you cannot milk butter from it.
Honor and money cannot go in the same sack.
From a thorn comes a rose, and from a rose comes a thorn.
Who does not jump into water will not learn to swim.
Stroke the dog and he will mark you with his dirty paws.
A whip even to a galloping horse.
We are esteemed and treated by the company we keep.
It's the orator's wit to make a story appear old.
Though this may be play to you,
Even if you remain an island you must still be friendly to the sea.
All that glisters is not gold.
Every man has his price.
When you are right no one remembers; when you are wrong no one forgets.
Act, and you may eat dinner. Think, and you may be dinner.
It is possible for a ram to kill a butcher.
Never dress in mourning before the dead man is in his coffin.
If you don't know where you are, any road will do.
How ever big a rat is, it can't threaten a cat.
The blessed knife eats of the meat of the 'kinandu'.
Stretch your foot to the length of your blanket.
If you want to annoy the devil stay silent.
Bad weather gets better, a bad man never does.
When your enemy falls, don't rejoice - but don't pick him up either.
God is not without sins: He created the world.
If you lie down with dogs you'll rise with fleas.
Charms do not perform miracles on the shelf; they perform for those who are brave.
An old man doesn't know what makes him herd again.
If you have learnt to wait, you may be Queen of Sweden.
Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him.
Moustaches hide the imperfections of the mouth.
God does not pay weekly, but He pays at the end.
The greater your troubles, the greater is your opportunity to show yourself a worthy person.
Until the rotten tooth is pulled out cautiously, the mouth will not have rest.
He who divides and shares is left with the best share.
Win a cat and lose a cow -- the consequence of litigation.
Don't say everything you want to say lest you hear something you would not like to hear.
Don't judge the dog by its fur.
Don't look a horse that was given to you in the mouth.
Listen to the mountain wind, 'til the streams abate.
A house can't be built for the rainy season that is past.
A kola nut is small, but it is more important that it goes round to each person and not that it fills the stomach.
Envy is blind.
He who has learned how to steal, must learn how to hang.
Opportunity makes desire.
Cyaa tan fur, t'row saal inna pat.
Like tree, like fruit.
Every source flows to the sea.
The river swells with the contribution of the small streams.
To the person who watches, everything reveals itself.
The hyena calls another hyena worse than itself.
An open gate lets stock out.
The land a man knows is his mother.
Call me anything but late for dinner.
You do not really know your friends from your enemies until the ice breaks.
Even the fear of death is dispelled by music.
Old canoes can be restored, but youth and beauty cannot.
Don't talk too much-your ignorance exceeds your knowledge.
We'll cross that bridge when we get to it.
Is like tomcat by nature.
To hit a dog with a meat-bun, so it leaves never turning around.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Your pocket is your friend.
Envy shoots as others and wounds herself.
It usually rains where it's already wet.
There is no room for two kings in one castle.
If you stumble more than once over the same stump, you have no one to blame but yourself.
A hungry man thinks he won't be satiated, a thirsty man thinks he won't be quenched.
Were I to tell my neighbour about my fate, he would heap insults upon me.
Thou hast a head and so hath a pin.
The foreign person is blind and the killed person has no chance.
Pity the man who has a stranger's spancel on him.
A dose of adversity is often as needful as a dose of medicine.
Who lies for you will lie against you.
Someone else's legs are no good to you when you're travelling.
To be in love is to feel the sun from both sides.
One never falls but on the side toward which one leans.
He that lies also steals.
Like saint, like offering.
Dogs cannot make dreams come true, people must do that.
The remedy is worse than the disease.
Long fasting is no bread sparing.
A man who lives on the banks of the Niger should not wash his hands with spittle.
He who has much, wants more.
The fly has no pity for the thin man.
When a hundred men call a wise man a fool, then he becomes a fool.
The morning sun never lasts a day.
Peace must be bought even at a high price.
The secret of two no further will go; the secret of three a hundred will know.
The egg shows the hen where to hatch.
It's pleasant to look on the rain, when one stands dry.
If in february there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain.
Ill tidings come soon enough.
The work will teach you how to do it.
The fool cuts himself with his own knife.
One of the two partners always bites the best part of the apple.
A borrowed len should come laughing ahme.
There's no illness that lasts one hundred years, or body that can resist it.
The revenge that is postponed is not forgotten.
He that would hang his dog, gives out first, that he is mad.
Dream of a funeral and you hear of a marriage.
When the bee comes to your house, let her have beer; you may want to visit the bee's house some day.
With water make rivers, with rice make armies.
Let me get over the lake, and I will have no fear of the brook.
It is not easy to straighten in the oak the crook that grew in the sapling.
Treat the small in the way you would want to be treated by the big.
He thought the ocean his own under his spells.
With patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
One kisses the nurse for the sake of the child.
The English always credit the rest of us with the qualities they don't need themselves.
Who gossips to you will gossip about you.
Someone who gossips to you will gossip about you.
When the pear is ripe, it falls.
Do not weaken the attention of him who is occupied.
You do not really understand something unless you can explain it to your grandmother.
You cannot make the mule drink when he is not thirsty.
The dog is a lion in his own house.
There is no greater misfortune, than to not be able to endure misfortune.
Wit's never bought till it's paid for.
Gnats, in great number, can beat an elephant.
A person who arrives at a feast when the cooked meat is being pulled out of the pot does not know what was endured by others to catch and cook it.
The sermon will not be preached twice for one deaf's sake.
Money is power.
Chance all; see what destiny yields.
A person does not objects to being called, he objects to what he is called for.
Those who die through ignorance are many; those who die.
It is better to walk fast than to grow angry at the forest.
The cock belongs to one household, but when it crows it is heard in the whole village.
An unmarried woman is not honored, even if she has 10 brothers.
Forgetting a debt does not pay it.
'tis a silly sheep that makes the wolf her confessor.
A person who talks a lot is bound to be right sometimes.
Much is expected where much is given. (Strauss, 1994 p. 1095)
Stupidity begins with honesty.
The woman had no problems so she bought some pigs.
Fire and gunpowder do not sleep together.
There is a great distance between said and done.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.
God grant us no neighbor with two eyes.
It matters less to a person where they are born than where they can live.
For so must it be, and help me do my part.
Honey catches more flies than vinegar.
They play till they quarrel.
A beautiful face is admired even when its owner doesn't say anything.
A gift with a kind countenance is a double present.
Divide and rule.
He is like the anchor that is always in the sea, yet does not learn to swim.
If he hasn't seen her/his father, he would claim to be a king.
He who assists everybody assists nobody.
Who buys land buys war.
If someone is coming to kill you, get up early and kill him first.
Prayer only from the mouth is no prayer.
Time is precious.
It requires more courage not to fight than to fight.
Put no faith in a drunkard's prophecy, another man's dog, or the weather at any season.
A myrtle standing among reeds still retains the name of myrtle.
Even a horn can be stopped from fighting and made to sing forever.
Much travel is needed to ripen a man's rawness.
Let the welfare of the people be the supreme law. (motto of the U.S. state of Missouri).
The fool sucks wisdom, as he porter sups, And cobblers grow fine speakers in their cups.
The rope of a lie is short.
When the curry is tasty, the rice is hard.
Even though you know a thousand things, ask the man who knows one.
Goslings lead the geese to water.
Folly and learning often dwell together.
It is better to ask twice than to go wrong once.
God grant, dear wife, that this son be ours.
The hand of the stranger is heavy.
If you are choosing between bad company and loneliness, choose the second option.
Make sure you have many books and many friends -- as long as they are good ones.
Make no more haste than good speed.
If your inner mind isn't deceived, your outer actions won't be wrong..
Deep down everyone's a ferengi.
A wicked man's gift hath a touch of his master.
He knows how many grains to a bushel of wheat.
To call war the soil of courage and virtue is like calling debauchery the soil of love.
Rather hat in hand than hand in purse.
Those who earn a lot are seldom tired, those who get tired seldom earn a lot.
Great wits meet.
On an unknown path every foot is slow.
None says his garner is full.
The begining is bud the end is coconut.
After we fry the fat, we see what is left.
The tongue has no bone yet it crushes.
By much laughter you detect the fool.
Reverence ceases once blood is split.
No day in which you learn something is a complete loss.
Sweet is the voice of the man who has wealth.
A field becomes exhausted by constant tillage.
Women's tears are fountains of malice.
He who is dependant on others must make friends with the dog.
Kindnesses, like grain, increase by sowing.
The suffering patient knows more than the expert doctor.
Epigrams might succeed where epics fail.
An old ape never made a pretty grimace.
The spendthrift beats his money as if it were a carpet.
The most dangerous food is a wedding cake.
The rain does not all fall on one roof.
A king or a slave.
Let us be glad to those who make us happy.
Deep draughts, and long morning slumbers, soon make a man poor.
Let the traveller fainting on his journey take rest under a tree which contains both fruit and shade.
Don't blame your wife's side if your son is cross-eyed.
Do you believe in love at the first sight or shall I walk past you again?
All kind of fish eat man, only shark get blame.
He who does not mend his clothes will soon have none.
The mother said "I will die", the wife said "I will marry", and in the meantime the house is full of dirt.
You cannot hide behind your finger.
Black ewe and white ewe: they who die, die, and those who live, live.
Fish and visitors smell in three days.
Find a cruel man and you see a coward.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck.
Every man slams the fat sows arse.
Character is like pregnancy. It cannot be hidden forever.
Everywhere there is a lot of mad even an elephant will slip.
The bull that is used to the sun shivers by the light of the moon.
He who is not lucky, let him not go to sea.
He who becomes blind in his old age does not lose his way.
You will discover your true friends in moments of crisis.
A pad that breaks a pot of water does not remain on the head.
Self is a bad counsellor.
There are men who walk through the woods and see no trees.
Shameful deeds bring on revenge.
Tell the truth, and people will bash in your head.
Little children, little problems; big children, big problems.
With a French sweep.
Let us first catch the bear and then sell its skin.
He who was born for a small loaf, will never own a big one.
Catch the opportunity.
The rich man never dances badly.
The greatest king must at last be put to bed with a shovel.
To know the road ahead, ask those coming back.
Scratch a Russian and you find a Tartar.
A good deed is never lost.
Let the past drift away with the water.
Honey is bitter for a sore mouth.
The ox's part in milking-time. (I.e. the role of an idle spectator.)
Strike while the iron is hot. or Make hay while the sun shines.
A diligent man ever finds that something remains to be done.
A good bark year makes a good wheat year.
What is inside a package is known only to its owner.
Changing of works is lighting of hearts.
The liar is caught sooner than a lame dog...A hazug embert hamarabb utolérik, mint a sánta kutyát.
Choose to fight, not negotiate.
Much caution does no harm.
On a fishing lull, even a crayfish is fish.
The horn that came out last will pass the ear that came out first.
The measure of our sacrifice is the measure of our love.
It takes a year to make a friend, but you can lose one in an hour.
A cat that is hidden with its tail showing.
So kind and so honest my lady appears to be.
Pluck the rose and leave the thorns.
To-day red, to-morrow dead.
A jealous lover becomes an indifferent spouse.
It is easier to bear a child once a year than to shave every day.
He struck at Tib, but down fell Tim.
He who greases his wheels helps his oxen.
All is not lost that is in danger.
When the pirate prays, there is great danger.
When a lion is old, he becomes the plaything of jackals.
Nuh name, nuh blame.
Success has many fathers.
He who does not regularly put on clean socks will never get used to circus life.
Lies are short-lived.
Cowardly men, healthy bones.
He that considers in prosperity; will be less afflicted in adversity.
The old man at home, and the young abroad, lie after the same fashion.
Spent as earned.
If you don't scale the mountain, you can't view the plain.
A blind chicken will often find an ear of corn.
Don't throw away your nets if you catch nothing, you never know what the gods are planning next.
A person is trying to benefit from being close to opposing parties.
Money and the devil know no rest.
Do a good deed every day.
Easy to change young wood shape than the old one.
An image of a bamboo has already been formed in mind before it is committed to the painting canvas.
With great learning, a horse, and money, you may travel the world.
Seil comes not while sorrow be gone.
The Spaniard is a bad servant but a worse master.
When thieves fall out, their knaveries come to light.
The pitcher will go to the well once too often.
When you bow, bow low.
Every road leads to Rome.
We are all equal in the eyes of the Lord.
A rather sure way to be cheated is to think one's self more clever than other people.
There is no pot so ugly but finds its cover.
One mangy sheep spoils a whole flock.
A crow will never be a falcon.
Things don't always go as planned.
Living is not a reward and dying is no crime.
If you take of your clothes for water you must bathe.
Envy is a kind of praise.
Steel whets steel.
Father above us all,
No one is hanged who has money in his pocket.
You cannot hook trout? Try digging clams.
If lies are to find credence, they must be patched with truth.
If the wolf would cease his running, the people would cease their shouting.
I can scarce believe you, ye speak sae fair.
Walk sidewise and block the way.
A quiet fool is half a sage.
He that sleeps with a dog, should bear its fleas.
Every man must act in the rhythm of his time, such is wisdom.
Don't cry at somebody else's grave.
The fruit of timidity is neither gain nor loss.
The wolf loves the fog.
The most stupid chicken always challenges the wildcat.
You can stop speaking to someone, but you cannot stop being related.
Never fear the sea, fear the storm.
Wisdom is the comb given to a man after he has lost his hair.
Speak the truth and shame the devil.
Who is wise? He who learns from all men.
A noh siame diay leaf drop a river bottom it rotten.
The widow is just as fiery as the horse that threw her.
The horse is Turkmen, it eats from both the nose-bag and the manger.
It never rains but it pours.
Wear not boots too big for your feet.
He that lives too fast, goes to his grave too soon.
If you wish to learn the highest truth, begin with the alphabet.
If you do not fill up a crack, you will have to build a wall.
Only two things matter in this world: a son and a daughter.
Beauty is not so much what you see as what you dream.
All that glitters is not gold, and all that is sticky is not tar.
Look at my color, know my mood.
Let your actions be equal to your promises.
Wipe wi' the water and wash wi' the towel.
Work in micalassu: eating, drinking and strolling.
To circumstances and custom the law must yield.
The day is sure to come when the cow will want her tail.
Only when you can be extremely pliable and soft can you be extremely hard and strong.
A welcome is a debtor's face.
Unless you enter the tiger's den you cannot take the cubs.
The tongue goes to the aching tooth.
When in motion, to push on is easy.
Step by step one goes very far.
He crushes pepper under the nose of somebody.
Eat less, live longer.
A wolf hankers after sheep even at his last gasp.
Better to struggle with a sick jackass than carry the wood by yourself.
We do not inherit the earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children.
If you've money, take a seat; it you've none, take to your feet.
The wood is burnt, but the ashes are a nuisance.
It is more becoming to have a large nose than two small ones.
When an escaped prisoner looks for a guard, he always finds one.
When you are rich, you are hated; when you are poor, you are despised.
Between promising and giving a man should marry his daughter.
One who marries for love alone will have bad days but good nights.
To have a friend, close one eye; to keep him, close both.
Never forget benefits done you, regardless how small.
Don't cast your pearls before swine.
Pearls are worthless in the desert.
People show their character by what they laugh at.
Fear and love never eat from the same plate.
A monkey never thinks her baby's ugly.
Speak the truth, but keep one hand on the sword.
For him who is accustomed to taking giving away is a battle.
The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Gold that falls to earth never dims.
A fowl does not forget where it lays it eggs.
Intelligence comes, but in the evening train.
Creaking carts last the longest.
A calamity is often a blessing in disguise.
Life is so short we must move very slowly.
If you want a beautiful woman, hurry to Syracuse: if you want her ugly, run to Terranova, go to Rosolini if you want her lazy and to Spaccaforno if you're looking for one to try.
I have lost my labour and my cost.
Guargual?, guargual?: it was rapids and remains rapids.
Life begins at forty.
He that does not bring up his son to some honest calling and employment brings him up to be a thief.
A dog won't forsake his master because of poverty; a son never deserts his mother because of her homely appearance.
Не that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
The hole is more honorable than the patch.
Every land has its own law.
A great fortune depends on luck, a small one on diligence.
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned.
Wasting time is stealing from oneself.
The father may well be a horse, but it's most likely that the son will be a mule.
There is no dog, be he ever so wicked, but wags his tail.
Search yourself, and you will find allah.
Ten men, ten tastes.
A fool dreams of wealth, a wise man, of happiness.
A man can endure the worst pain - of others.
Without rice, even the cleverest housewife cannot cook.
Like two drops of water.
That which is written in heaven, comes to pass on earth.
It is not good to be the poet of a village.
A fool might be counted wise if he kept his mouth shut.
A loving wife is often blessed with the birth of a tenth child.
If a mother steals with a child stripped in the back what do you expect of the child.
your words are fair,” said the wolf, "but I will not come into the village.
Whenever I work hard for other people, I always sleep on an empty stomach.
Do what thou doest.
Who has never been burned in the sun won't know the value of shadow.
Go to Catania for beautiful silk jackets.
A fair offer is nae feud.
Never be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts.
The brotherhood of coconuts is a meeting in the cook-in pot.
The moon lightens well but leaves certain areas in the dark.
The rat cannot call the cat to account.
Silence betokens consent.
It is not easy to walk upon the devil's ice.
Such beginning, such end.
A day of travelling will bring a basketful of learning.
The Donkey, though it may go to the Holy Land, will still come back a donkey.
To believe in one's dreams is to spend all of one's life asleep.
If the bird hadn't sung, it wouldn't have been shot.
When you look to the heights, hold on to your hat.
To give away is to make provision for the future.
Any wise enemy is better than an ignorant friend.
Advices are like snow very gentle but can snowball in the end.
He that buys the office of magistrate must of necessity sell justice.
So many in the jail while innocent.
A vagabond monk never spoke well of his convent.
The oft-moved stone gathers no moss.
Ready money works great cures.
All the honey a bee gathers during its lifetime doesn't sweeten its sting.
Ye should be a king of your word.
Every reproach against an accused man is contemptible.
Peace is the well from which the stream of joy runs.
What is got by begging is dearly bought.
Tell the blind he is eyeless, and he will get mad at you.
To a quick question, give a slow answer.
To one who does not know, a small garden is a forest.
An evil act runs a thousand miles.
Give the emperor what is the emperors and God what is Gods.
Literature is a good staff but a bad crutch.
deeds, not words.
Sweet is the apple when the keeper is away.
A good merchant has neither money nor goods.
Art is art, even though unsuccessful.
The longest road is the one that leads to your pocket.
He has heard the clock ring, but can't find the lever.
Man invented language to satisfy is deep need to complain.
[If all of us] take hold of [it] together, it won't feel heavy.
Your belly is not a book.
When a fowl gets to a new town, it stands on one leg until it knows that it is a town where people stand on their two legs.
Better belly burst than good victuals spoil.
Even in paradise, living all alone would be hell.
Even the most beautiful sheets have small flaws.
The man is the flame, the woman the glow.
Who is chasing after another must himself rest.
He that would the daughter win must with the mother first begin.
If you wish good advice, consult an old man.
The sun that melts the wox is the same that hardens the mud.
When I think of the others's misfortunes, I forget mine.
Daughter-in-law hates mother-in-law.
Listen to what they say about others, and you will know what they say about you.
Put your hand nae farther oot than your sleeve will reach.
Honor is more important than life.
Darkness and night are mothers of thought.
To be slow in giving ant to refuse, are alike.
As a thing is used, so it brightens.
He that has but one pig easily fattens it.
Work makes you into a hunchback and then rich.
Tell me who you walk with, and I'll tell you who you are.
Communities begin by building their kitchen.
Kindle not a fire that you can't extinguish.
The will gives the work its name.
Where all limp, everybody thinks he walks straight.
The tongue of co-wives is bitter.
A weaning baby that does not cry aloud will die on its mothers back.
Better to satisfy the body than to tarnish the soul.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
Every promise is a debt.
Reconciled friendship is a wound ill salved.
The youth walks faster than the elderly but the elderly knows the road.
He who would succeed at court, must lie sometimes low, sometimes high.
Keep up with the times, don't stay in the dark.
One clean sheet will not soil another.
Possession satisfies.
When the mighty fall on hard times, they are disrespected by all.
The owl mocked the tit.
You cannot please everybody.
He who is the cause of his own misfortune may bewail it himself.
No one perceives where the shoe pinches but he who wears it.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Say nothing when you are giving -- only say something when you are receiving.
The words of the elderly are as sweet as honey.
A man's conversation is the mirror of his thoughts.
A troubled heart is a worm to the bones.
What we do with pity another would call it strength.
Patience is a plaster for all sores.
Cry not for the hair when the head is off.
To good eating belongs good drinking.
An honest citizen is an exile in his own country.
Without wine, even beautiful cherry blossoms have small attraction.
Do not tell your secrets behind a wall or a hedge.
A loan, though old, is not a gift.
Sometimes you need to die in order to live again.
Death is lighter than a feather.
Set thy expense according to thy trade.
Whatsoever a new bride touches is fragrant.
Children travel from the heart to the heart.
We grow too soon old and too late smart.
Drive not a second nail till the first be clinched.
Them short fe singer when dem put peacock in a choir.
To you your religion and to me my religion.
Food tastes best when you eat it with your own spoon.
Even thinking about sexual pleasure has its roots in greed.
The taller the house, the heavier the storm.
When you persuade, speak of interest, not of reason.
God gives all birds their food but does not drop it into their nests.
The fast talker makes mistakes.
Lovers and thieves always look for darkness.
A donkey cannot trot for long.
A gift delayed, and long expected, is not given, but sold dear.
Home is where the heart is.
He gapes like a clown at a fair.
There is no book that contains absolutely nothing bad, and there is no book that contains absolutely nothing good.
Dragons often rise up on their tail.
If you shoot your arrows at stones, you will damage them.
An old fox is not caught in a snare.
At the bottom of patience one finds heaven.
Water hollows out the stone not by force, but by persistence.
Crosses are the ladders to heaven.
Woe is he whose meal is in the river.
If you respect your mother, you'll go to heaven, that's how high a mother's place is.
What is decided by legitimate authority is not resented by the subjects.
Words are sweet, but they never take the place of food.
Happy is the man without sickness. Rich is the man with no debts.
Why keep a dog and bark yourself?
Better joy in a cottage than sorrow in a palace.
Without effort no harvest will be abundant.
The heart's mirth does make the face fair.
The deities of one age are the bywords of the next.
Love can neither be bought or sold, its only price is love.
Many words, little credit.
The worst is not always certain but it's very likely.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
A man without prudence is a ship without an anchor.
Ten noes are better then one lie.
Stand so much until grass grows under your foot.
They that lie dawn far love should rise up for hunger.
Saint Swithun's day, if thou be fair, for forty days it will remain; Saint Swithun's day, if thou bring rain, for forty days it will remain.
Laughter can be heard further than weeping.
Anger is the only thing to put off till tomorrow.
If a warrior ignores duty, acts dishonorably, or is disloyal, he is nothing.
The sparrow flying behind the hawk thinks the hawk is fleeing.
A friend in Court is worth a penny in purse.
The cub does not teach the Wolf.
A coward has no scar.
You can't have it both ways.
God makes the back to the burden.
He who waits gets a tailwind, and he who rows, a harbour.
Listening is the most difficult skill to learn and the most important to have.
Have patience and you'll get what you want.
Leopards lurk in dark corners.
The camel driver has his plans and the camel has his.
Fireflies shine only when in motion.
Loneliness breaks the spirit.
Once a horse is old, ticks and flies flock to it.
A woman's heart dries quicker than her tears.
Men leap over where the hedge is lower.
A crazy vessel never falls from the hand.
It is better to be a free man in a small house than a slave in a big one.
A bird is known by his note and a man by his talk.
The stick that breaks the window does not kill a dog.
It is not easy to sting a bear with a straw.
An infertile woman gets a lot of visitors.
Every living thing has a story to tell.
If my grandma had balls I'd call her granddad.
When the miller is also the mayor, there are two thieves in one pair of trousers.
A fragrant bloom is not necessarily a beautiful flower; an orator may not be a crackerjack.
When ambition ends, happiness begins.
A windy day is the wrong one for thatching.
Adversity does best discover virtue.
The needle is small, but it sews expensive garments.
A silent mouth is sweet to hear.
‘hit me but I must not hit you' is no game at all.
A friendship that dies is never reborn.
Pepper in someone else's eyes is a salve.
Friends are known in adversity.
In the company of the good we become good.
Even old foxes are caught in the snare.
Time and tide for nae man bide.
Be not ashamed of mistakes and thus make them crimes.
The bride's faults are hidden by the dowry.
The good fortunes of life fall to the lot even of the base.
You can never enter the same river twice.
The first duty of a soldier is obedience.
No cloth can be better than your skin.
The green twig is easily bent.
Every wood has its own smoke.
He who has a good neighbour has a good morning.
Who sows wind will harvest storm.
Better keep peace than make peace.
Who handles water is bound to get wet.
Keep the staff in your ain hand.
Be what you appear to be.
A scholars ink lasts longer than a martyr's blood.
Talk of the Devil, and he is bound to appear.
You harvest what you sow.
Whatever nature does least, man does most.
At the pharmacy don't taste, at the blacksmith's don't touch.
All roads lead to Rom.
Children pick up words, as pigeons peas, and utter them again as God shall please.
Tell me what company you keep and i will tell you who you are.
The memories of one's youth make for long, long thoughts.
Don't believe in the saint unless he works miracles.
The higher the monkey climbs, the more it is exposed to danger.
Many man speirs the gate he kens full well.
Sweet meat requires sour sauce.
What breaks in a moment may take years to mend.
An elephant grows and becomes an adult, even if people do not like it.
He who wishes to live at Rome must not quarrel with the pope.
Goes in one ear comes out the other.
A threatened man lives long, if he can get bread.
If you want to know villain, give him a stick.
Examine well the counsel that favours your desire.
The rope will break where it is thinnest.
I do not tell thee what thou art, thou wilt tell it thyself.
One may buy gold too dear.
Walk better dan sidong.
She's a foul bird that syles her own nest.
Everyone carries around his own witches.
No all foot in a boot a good foot.
Home affairs cannot be told to the public.
He who is sitting in the reeds, makes a whistle of his choice.
The eyes of all cheats are full of tears.
One gives by tons, but takes accounts by ounces.
A Tatar says to a Tatar: Call me Aga and I will call you Aga, and we shall both be Agas.
"History is the teacher of life.”.
Without investigating the water, don't take off your shoes.
Misfortune is not that which can be avoided, but that which cannot.
What is a big shot except a little shot that kept on shooting.
Crosses are ladders which lead to heaven.
Good wine needs no bush.
Giving what one does not possess is always a sign of charity.
However big the whale may be, the tiny harpoon can rob him of life.
The scent of a rose will always stay on the hand of the giver.
Those have most power to hurt us that we love. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
It is difficult to tie an unborn horse to the manger.
Away from the eye, away from the mind.
To a physician a sick man is a garden.
An ungrateful son is a wart on his father's nose.
Patience when teased is often transformed into rage.
The fish lead a pleasant life, they drink when they like.
Little pots soon run over.
There is a black sheep in every flock.
A rat never goes near a cat's celebration venue.
Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been leant to you.
Power lasts ten years; influence not more than a hundred.
Ill company brings many a man to the gallows.
Lying in the gutter, looking at the stars.
Times are not always the same; the grass is not always green.
People can no more be judged by their looks than the sea can be measured in bushels.
A man's heart is a forest.
Weeping washes the face.
Satiety has killed more men than hunger.
The multitude is stronger than the king.
Even a thousand-mile journey begins with the first step.
Better to sell it with regret than to keep it.
Count not your chickens before they are hatched.
What you see in yourself is what you see in the world.
He who punishes one chastises a hundred.
Who works in sweat will eat with appetite.
A friends Dinner is soon dight.
Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm.
The wolf changes his fur, but never his temperament.
The dunghill grows by straws thrown upon it.
If you want an audience start a fight.
Being too nice can cost a lot.
A new broom is good for three days.
You don't buy a cat in a bag.
It is not in speaking continually of honey that sweetness comes into the mouth.
Bad hen, bad egg.
The frog likes water, but not boiling water.
Treachery will come home to the traitor.
Few have luck, all have death.
The venemous snake cannot be seen in the savannah.
Those that eat cherries with great persons shall have their eyes squirted out with the stones.
the father bequeathed a vineyard to his son, but the son denied his father even a bunch of grapes.
If you agree to carry the calf, they'll make you carry the cow.
Only love gives us the taste of eternity.
The plan executed, reason comes to our assistance!
It is wisdom to prevent someone from whom one cannot accept repayment to have access to one's valuable possessions.
The mouth brought the wolf into the trap, the tongue the ermine to the snare.
The age of miracles is past.
The bed of the Dominicans, the table of the Capuccins, and the luxury of the Benedictines.
You get what you pay for.
Never poke a jaguar with a short stick.
The Royal Anthem of Jordan is known as "as-Salam al-Malakī al-Urduni” (Music Video)
He who is judge between two friends, loses one of them.
He, who gets angry, grows old fast.
Flies, dogs. and mimics are the first to rush to the dish.
Let not your shirt know your way of thinking.
It is a blessing in disguise.
A young crocodile does not cry when he falls in the water.
Carthage didn't raise up in only one day.
One half the troubles in this world can be traced to saying ‘yes' too quick or saying ‘no' not soon enough.
A man throws stones not words.
Everyone's companion is no one's friend.
There is no medicine against death.
Stay within your level of competence.
Tomorrow is a new day.
Never promise a poor person, and never owe a rich one.
He that wants content canna sit easy in his chair.
Who has no money in his purse must have honey in his mouth.
Hussars pray for war, and the doctor for fever.
Whomever needs milk, bows to the animal.
Men do not limp while their legs are the same length.
What's bred in the bone will never out of the flesh.
God has taken him to a high position.
The chicken also knows when it's morning, but still watches the mouth of the cock.
He that looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath committed adultery already with her in his heart.
He who is afraid to ask is ashamed of learning.
Clothes make the man.
If you break the fast, better eat pork, not curds.
No means, no market.
Only what you have in your hand is not a lie.
Before criticizing a man, walk a mile in his shoes.
Disgrace is like the grain of a tree trunk -- time makes it bigger instead of erasing it.
He who would be rich should not collect money, but reduce his needs.
He has a finger in every pie.
The evil is lessened when it is seen beforehand.
Slowly, slowly, even an egg will walk.
If you can give me no ointment for my wound, can you help me by not rubbing salt in?
Nature shines through the cat's eyes.
If winning is not important, then why keep score.
Old age is not a joy, but death is not a gain.
The ox will die but its harness remains.
Youth is beauty, even in cattle.
The best physicians are Dr. Diet, Dr. Quiet, and Dr. Merryman.
Practice makes perfect.
It is a poor mouse that has but one hole.
A living dog is been than a dead lion.
The Rhinoceros never dances with the monkey.
Sometimes you have to throw yourself into the fire to escape from the smoke.
A traveller is poor, even though he being a ruler.
Unhappy, he who has no one.
Learning through the heel.
He who doesn't die on the battlefield slips in the bathtub.
Pride and grace dwell never in ae place.
The man who gives little with a smile gives more than the man who gives much with a frown.
As welcome as water in one's shoes.
Men will give away their last shirt to become millionaires.
Time and Patience would bring the snail to Jerusalem.
If neither animal nor vegetable you be, then mineral you are. If one finger brought oil it soiled others.
Dirty clothes one washes at home.
His/her thumb is the middle of the palm of hand.
Of doctor and poet, musician and madman, we each have a trace.
Justice has a waxen nose.
When two elephants fight it is the grass that suffers.
If two thieves quarreled, what was stolen emerges.
He who increases knowledge, increases sorrow.
A person changing his clothing always hides while changing.
The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat.
When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone.
Any fish is good if it is on the hook.
Contrivance is better than force.
He would skin a flint.
Shavings fly where wood is being chopped.
A stream cannot rise above its source.
The community of living is the carriage of the lord.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
You ask the path when the high road is before your eyes.
Fly 'bout the ears of the old cur.
Every coin has two sides.
Love has its tides; before ebb tide you must take advantage of the flood.
They that think no ill are soonest beguiled.
Don't trust someone who tells you all of his troubles and keeps you from all of his joys.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
There is no rule without an exception.
If you wait for the downfall of the king, god will not make it sound.
The hands of a lawyer are always in someone's pocket.
He who lives without restraint, will die without honour.
Little by little the bird builds its nest.
Those who have saved one life have saved the entire world.
He who can't get bacon, must be content with cabbage.
The old age of an eagle is better than the youth of a sparrow.
A maid who laughs is half taken.
Needs must when the devil drives.
The horse must graze where it is tethered.
If you stay long enough in one place the whole world passes you by.
There is a remedy for everything except death.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
As slippery as an eel. (15th century)
Contentment is an inexhaustible treasure.
Shark is the famous one in sea the but they many others.
We note the faults of others and forget our own.
One only gives what one has.
Smack a tray of water and you get to wash your face.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
Hire staff but do it yourself.
Too much force breeds suspicion.
A fifth wheel to a cart is but an encumbrance.
It's better to be a cripple than always sitting down.
Examples evil communications corrupt good manners.
What is play to one is death to another.
Give even an onion graciously.
Pineapples are small, large, and sweet. In other words, all girls are mature.
You know what to say, but you do not know what you might be told.
The pearls of a bride on her wedding day are the tears that will be shed later.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
One can only try to get what one can from the head of an elephant, no one ever carries it home.
The plant God favors will grow even without rain.
Men seek less to be instructed than applauded.
Give a hungarian a glass of water and a gypsy fiddler and he will become completely drunk.
Mother Nature, time and patience are the three best doctors.
When you see clouds gathering, prepare to catch rainwater.
The water of the river flows on without waiting for the thirsty man.
A good memory is not so good as a little ink.
He who serves small masters, is himself one of them.
Those who walk slowly reach a far, hence to hurry is not worth.
The sun never sets without fresh news.
Eat before falling in love.
A stupid turtle-dove is sometimes surprised by night for wanting.
Avarice bursts the bag.
If the fountainhead is clear, the stream will be clear.
No road is too long in the company of a friend.
Gentle doctors cause smelly wounds.
A stupid act entails doing the work twice over.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
If something is given to you then take it, if you are beaten, then run away.
If you see Mt. Fuji, a hawk, and an eggplant on New Year's Day, you will be forever blessed.
All roads lead to Beijing.
A rotten egg can't be spoiled.
Man is the measure of all things.
Possession is nine points of the law.
The dog that wags its tail won't be beaten.
He who steals an egg today, will steal an ox tomorrow.
Who serves the public, serves a fickle master.
The clever wife makes her husband an apron.
Ingratitude is a kind of weakness; the clever are never ungrateful.
Moustaches are respected, and beards worn even by goats.
A little bird wants but a little nest.
Slander by the stream will be heard by the frogs.
As the master sleeps, the servant dreams.
Talking comes by nature, silence by wisdom.
It is no advantage for a man in fever to change his bed.
Fair is not fair, but that which pleases.
Poor thanks is the way of the world.
A barking cur does not bite.
A poor person isn't he who has little, but he who needs a lot.
Truth is like fire it cannot be hidden under dry leaves.
There's no great loss without some gain.
He who digs someone else's grave shall fall in it himself.
A golden key fits every door.
He who brings bad tidings, comes soon enough.
The prudent embark when the sea is calm - the rash when it's stormy.
The people sitting in the free theater seats are the first ones to boo.
Made the master but didn't remember to tar his ass.
More belongs to riding than a pair of boots.
He who pitches too high won't get through his song.
Praise the child, and you make love to the mother.
The joy of the heart makes the face fair.
He is rich who owes nothing.
Follow love, and it will flee from thee; leave it, and it will follow thee.
Little by little the cotton thread becomes a turban.
He that eats while he lasts, will be the war while he die.
More grows in a tilled field than is sown in it.
There are three creatures beyond ruling – a mule, a pig and a woman.
When the dew-laden breeze of the uplands creeps swiftly down, it brings with it the fragrance of the gardenia.
Close only counts in horseshoes and hand-grenades.
When had comes, have is too late.
Good fruit never comes from a bad tree.
It's not what you know, it's how fast you can find it.
If you are too shy to ask, you might lose your way. When you go away, the conversation changes.
An unsolicited guest is better than a solicited one.
After the meal, one has to be still and shut the eyes for a while in the gloom.
Put that in your pipe and smoke it.
Two guests love a different song.
We cannot all be Pope of Rome.
A monkey, even dressed in silk is still a monkey.
To try and fail is not laziness.
The mountain has brought forth a mouse.
"an egg is an egg,” said the beadle, but he took the goose-egg.
Carve the peg by looking at the hole.
He that blames would buy.
The sky is not the less blue because the blind man does not see it.
The rabbi drinks the wine and asks the others to be happy.
Give me money to buy myself a purse to put my money in.
If you want to remove a mountain start with one stone at a time.
If you want the daughter, you must kiss the mother.
Poverty without debt is real wealth.
If everyone helps to hold up the sky, then one person does not become tired.
He eats sheep-tail with the wold, and cries with the shepherd.
Be master of mind rather than mastered by mind.
Beauty and folly are old companions.
What is sport to the cat is death to the mouse.
Gloves hide the ugliest hands.
The village gate can be closed, the mouth of the fool, never.
He who is without debt is without credit.
Revere the Emperor and expel the barbarians.
If you don't know how to swim, why are you at the seashore?
Drink like hell and be happy.
A good friend is better than silver and gold.
When the Gods are angry with a man, they give him what he asks for.
Better to see the face than to hear the name.
Barking dogs don't bite.
Learn fe dance at home before you go abroad.
One cannot be at the oven and the mill at the same time.
Where there are no dogs the wolves will howl.
If you don't want to attract attention, don't start something new.
Apes remain apes, though you cloth them in velvet.
If you don't crack the shell, you can't eat the nut.
Give him a foot and he'll take four.
Words are good when works follow.
Secret fire is discovered by its smoke.
Take care of clothes since they are new, take care of your honor since you are young.
The early bird catches the early worm.
He who lies in the mud will rise dirty.
The mouse that has but one hole is quickly taken.
Silence implies consent.
A good friend is better than a near relation.
Stretch your legs as far as your quilt goes.
Feasting is the physician's harvest.
To carry his load without resting, not to be bothered by heat or cold and always be content these three things we can learn from a donkey.
Who paints me before blackens me behind.
A swallow does not make a summer.
Those who fight with silver spears are sure of their victory.
A pear tree cannot bear an apple.
Who never built a house thinks that the walls grow out of the ground.
Tell no tales out of school.
By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn.
Great deeds are reserved for great men.
The doorstep of a great house is slippery.
A lazy boy and a warm bed are difficult to part.
The sight of books removes sorrows from the heart.
Sincerity gives wings to power.
Instead of worrying, a strong man wears a smile.
To serve a mean person, is to beat the earth.
A spoonful of tar in a barrel of honey.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Lime and lime without manure makes the farmer rich and the son poor.
We share the same sun but not our homes.
The hyena chasing two gazelles at the same will go to bed hungry.
Who serves the mass is thanked by none, but cursed if aught left undone.
The son of a zebra also has stripes.
There's no making a good cloak of bad cloth.
When the sky falls, we'll all catch larks.
The rain falls on the just and the unjust.
Speaking of the devil.
Honey is one thing, the price is another.
It is but fair that he who requires indulgence for his own offences should grant it to others.
To wait is not to tremble.
What makes you happy, makes you rich.
Slaughter no more than you can well salt.
They bow to you when borrowing, you bow to them when collecting.
Where there is no rapport there is no sale. Enrolling people in your product or service is the same as enrolling them in you.
Men fear danger, women only the sight of it.
You cannot wage war without the sound of gunpowder.
One stupid woman recognizes another one from a distance.
Don't talk sweet, spit the sugar out of your mouth!
Walk a mile in my moccasins to learn where they pinch.
Dear Motherland,
Stones or bread, one must have something in hand for the dogs.
A lie doesn't have a foot to stand on.
Misfortune of soup made of shanks and feet.
Dirty water will quench fire.
Build but one nest in one tree.
It needs a cunning hand to shave a fool's head.
They are welcome that brings.
He who comforts never has a headache.
The seller has one eye, the buyer, one hundred.
A person can never run so fast as to run away from his backside.
This is already a gnawed bone.
Diet cures mair than doctors.
Whatever I disliked, happened to me.
A crab does not beget a bird.
The only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping.
The cock is king on his own dunghill.
Do not judge of the ship from the land.
Cunning and wise as an old fox.
Blessed is the one who cares for his soul.
Beauty and chastity are always quarreling.
Slander expires at a good woman's door.
Who doesn't intend to pay, signs any contract.
Meanness looks through one eye only, ambition is blind.
You can't complain about the sea if you suffer shipwreck for the second time.
She who laughs not in the morning, laughs not at noon.
New day -- new destiny.
He that lives in a glass house must not throw stones.
He that marries a widow will often have a dead man's head thrown into the dish.
If you play push with the porcupine, expect to get sore hands.
Clouds and thunder don't always result in rain.
In fair weather prepare foul.
A triple rope is not easily broken.
Dancing the drum will be done where the drum is.
Dear physic always does good, if not to the patient, at least to the apothecary.
Fish and guests stink after three days.
Who gossips to you will gossip of you.
Shoemaker, stick to your last.
The horse may wish to do one thing, but he who saddles him another.
The neighbor's chicken is a duck.
The light of a thousand stars doesn't equal the light of the moon.
Where two are fighting, a third one wins.
Do not count your chicken before they are hatched.
It is easier to get a chicken back in the egg than to undo a slander.
At length the fox is brought to the furrier.
Ye'll neither dee for your wit nor be drowned for a warlock.
True teaching is not accumulation of knowledge, it is an awakening of consciousness.
The man who builds his own throne rules over a desert.
A little fish is supper for a large fish.
Men fear death as children do going in the dark.
Obedience is the mother of happiness.
Wide ears and short tongue are the best.
He who loves thinks that the others are blind; the others think that he is crazy.
The fruits of a tree on the roadside are never eaten ripe.
Running water carries no poison.
Who digs a hole for another, falls in it himself.
Least said soonest mended.
The bigger the pot the more rice will stick to it.
First come to the mill, first grind.
Not everything you hear is good for conversation.
Who has cold hands is in love, who has warm hands is loved.
The riskier the road, the greater the profit.
Green maize abounds at the houses of those without teeth.
If the claw is stuck, the whole bird is lost.
The person who can see a house in china is unaware of an elephant on his nose.
Don't sell the bear-skin before you have killed the bear.
Gratitude is the least of virtues; ingratitude is the worst of vices.
Revenge a hundred years old has still its milk-teeth.
A honey tongue, a heart of gall.
When a heifer is far from home she grows longer horns.
The enemy of a father will never be friends of his son.
No bed is big enough to hold three.
Knowledge is like a garden: if it is not cultivated, it cannot be harvested.
Whoever says "let's fight" does not know who will be victorious.
When apes climb high, they show their naked rumps.
Well knows the cats whose ear she licks.
The house of the loud talker leaks.
He who wants to build high must dig deep.
Water does not run under a lying stone.
When a very short man causes the market to break up in a big fight, bystanders ask him to stand up so that they can see how short he really is.
When you're at the dealing table, always look for the sucker– and make sure it isn't you.
Firelight will not let you read fine stories, but it's warm and won't let you see the dust on the floor.
If you have to drag a dog to the hunt, neither he nor his hunting is any good.
No jealousy, no love.
Friendship stands not in One side.
His bark is worse than his bite.
A rotting fish begins to stink at the head.
Favour oft avails more than justice or reason.
To know and not do is not yet to know.
It is better to attract two birds to the nest than one.
Always sample a maidens charms before the wedding.
Woman is like your shadow; follow her, she flies; fly from her, she follows.
As to flowers, when half open; as to sake, when a person is half tipsy.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Learn as you'd live forever; live as you'd die tomorrow.
When the cat is not home, the mice dance on the table.
Don't tell a secret to anybody, unless you want the whole world to know it.
Everything has an end except God.
Neither fish nor meat.
Hurt not others with that which pains yourself.
The best doctors are Dr. Diet, Dr, Quiet, and Dr. Merryman.
The man is like the owner of Europe, 'though as far as I know I haven't sold a piece.
Even hares insult a dead lion.
That which is beyond our reach is nothing to us.
A slattern woman hold open the door to hell.
What I do against my will cannot be said to be my own act.
Do not draw your sword to kill a fly.
Ask questions from your heart and you will be answered from the heart.
Who aims at things beyond his reach, the greater will be his fall.
God and nature do not work together in vain.
You can't escape your destiny.
The eye sees, but the hand can't reach.
A person who underneath the tall palm tree is best positioned to tell on which side the ripe head is.
If you want to travel fast use the old roads.
Far from grave, no praying.
Avoid those who don't like bread and children.
Hope gives strength and courage, and saves an otherwise dying man from his grave.
Thy sun rising high, shall command!
He sets the fox to keep his geese.
The less said the sooner mended.
If you're a reed-player, why did your father die of typhoid fever?
He who becomes a sheep is eaten by the wolf.
It is a loss of soap to wash the ass's head.
He who lives fast goes straight to his death.
From a simple spark there will often be produced a great conflagration.
Fools sometimes give wise men counsel.
To eat and itch, all you have to do is begin.
"love one another” said christ, but he didn't mention anything about preferences.
Where the hedge is lowest, the devil leaps over.
The teeth are smiling, but is the heart?
It's easier to lose faith than to find it again.
Not to know the good we have till time has stolen the cherish'd gift away.
Favour will surely perish as life.
To get the lid on the nose.
He who swallows an old man vomits grey hair.
The sweetest grapes are picked from the vineyard of friendship.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
The tune you are playing is not the one I am dancing to.
A ship often sank beside the harbour.
Even the Priest was a thief when gold was left out.
The wheel turns better if greased.
No mischief but a woman or a priest is at the bottom of it.
Hate has no medicine.
First catch your hare, then cook him.
Hope for the best.
A wedge from itself splits the oak tree.
Trusting too much to others has been the ruin of many.
What was written by a pen, cannot be taken out with an axe.
Coin a phrase.
He who rides upon an ass cannot help but smell its gas!
Tomorrow is close if you wait it.
A promise is a cloud; fulfillment is rain.
The earth is not an inheritance of our fathers, nor one for our sons.
The carpenter's door is loose.
There is no chapel so small but has its saint.
There are two selves, the separate ego and the indivisible Atman. When one rises above I and me and mine, the Atman is revealed as one's real Self.
Even if a knife is made of silver, a person won't stab his own heart with it.
Be not a baker if your head be of butter.
Don't think there are no sharks because the water is calm.
They that see but your head dinna see your height.
What one learns while young, one masters when old.
From my gossip's bread a large piece for my godson.
Words of insults are futile, the more they fit, the more they are lost.
You do not fall because you are weak; you fall because you think you are strong.
You are talking to a stone.
Purity separates us, filth unites.
Though each path is different, there is only one way.
Are you not accustomed to look at home, when you abuse others?
Ignorance is blindness.
In America half an hour is forty minutes.
It's not so terrible when you lose money, but when courage is lost, all is lost.
To a rogue a rogue and a half.
If you keep your mouth shut, you won't put your foot in it.
Different background means different thinking.
A kind word never broke anyone's mouth.
Never tell all that you know, or do all that you can, or believe all that you hear.
He is always right who suspects that he is always wrong.
Don't ever try to give a spear to a former mad man.
God has created us brothers but has given us separate purses.
Empty stalks from the Sirocco and full spikes of wheat with the North Wind.
For whoever wants the blue sky, the price is high.
The end depends on the beginning.
If you curse your wife in the evening, you will sleep alone at night.
Respect starts with yourself.
The fox thinks everybody eats poultry like himself.
Blaw the wind ne'er sae fast, it will lown at the last.
When a single hair has fallen from your head, you are not yet bald.
Who seeks a faultless friend remains friendless.
Without effort there is no food.
I taught him archery everyday, and when he got good at it he throw an arrow at me.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost; for want of a shoe the horse is lost; for want of a horse the rider is lost.
A blind man's wife is God's keeping.
I believe what you say, i'm only surprised at what you do.
your beauty, your loveliness,
Burning embers are easily kindled.
What one has, one doesn't want, and what one wants, one doesn't have.
Respect old people, and be gentle with children.
Have your cake and eat it too.
If you believe everything you read, you had better not read.
Sleep can interfere.
He makes a hundred knives, none of which has a handle.
Perseverance brings success.
He that comes unbidden goes unthanked.
He takes the wind out of someone's sails.
If you continue to contaminate your own home.
Postpone today's anger until tomorrow.
Laziness is a heavy burden.
It's dog's delight to bark and bite, but little children never.
In every forest, there is a snake.
When the hyena is gone, the dog begins to bark.
He would break his neck against a straw.
The workman is worthy of his hire.
Blood boils without flame.
When a neighbor gets divorced everyone thinks of his own wife.
What the wolf does pleases his mate.
When we take one step toward to God, he takes seven steps toward us.
If you strike a goad with your fist, your hand will suffer most.
Over the bottle many a friend is found.
Fly fly ladybug under the big stone, there is your dad, your mom will cook porridge for you.
It's as hard to see a woman crying as it is to see a barefooted duck.
One's shadow grows larger than life when admired by the light of the moon.
You cannot strike a face that is smiling.
It is not for nothing that the devil lays himself down in the ditch.
At the end of the game, the pawn and the king go back in the same box.
While seeking new friends, hold to the old.
Music is the handmaid of divinity.
A solitary man is either a brute or an angel.
Don't send an old man to buy a donkey, nor a young man to woo a wife.
A vacant mind is open to all suggestions, as a hollow mountain returns all sounds.
Better have a Mouse in the pot as no flesh.
When two quarrel both are in the wrong.
They put up minds for sale on the market, everyone liked his own mind.
Buy from desperate people, and sell to newlyweds.
Children and fools have merry lives.
A person who sells eggs doesn't start a fight in the market.
When a man wants a wife, he wants but a wife; but when he has got a wife, he wants a great deal.
Highest in the court, nearest the widdie.
Falcons don't fly after cage-birds.
Walls have ears, doors have eyes.
Dogs that bark at a distance bite not at hand.
He who carries one burden will soon carry a hundred.
The sieve says to the needle; you have a hole in your head.
A bad man's gift is like his master.
Be humble for you are made of earth. Be noble for you are made of stars.
A tale is soon told; a deed is not soon done.
A gentle disposition is like an unruffled stream.
The sun will shine on those who are standing, before it shines on those who are sitting.
To give tardily is to refuse.
If you do not know death, look at the grave.
It is an ill wind that blows nobody good.
The food found wacu in the field.
Fowls will not spare a cockroach that falls in their mist.
You cannot shave a man's head in his absence.
The buyer needs a hundred eyes; the seller but one.
Wind puffs up empty bladders; opinion, fools.
Take care when you speak in judgment. Words are powerful weapons.
God protect us from him who has read but one book.
The bird will not fly into your arrow.
There's nothing worse than a person looking for a quarrel.
There's no compassion like the penny.
Grass fears the frost, frost fears the sun.
Every land to its own custom, every wheel its own spindle.
Don't be afraid of the chili pepper, even though it's so red.
Marry your son when you will, your daughter when you can.
Let him eat the tough morsel who eat the tender.
The goat says: "where there is blood, there is plenty of food.”.
Tis wisdom sometimes to seem a fool.
Work as if you were to live forever; live as if you were to die tomorrow.
If you have wit and learning, add to it wisdom and modesty.
Who does not want to work, need not to eat.
Not the place where I was born but where I hang my hat is home.
Better to be safe than sorry.
Do not let your eye go beyond what is your own property; do not covet what is not yours..
Overtakes whom gets, and stones whom doesn't.
Whoever sleeps with children wakes up all wet.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
Two hungry meals make the third a glutton.
Best things in life are free.
They took us to water and brought us back thirsty.
He looks as if the wood were fu' o' thieves.
Put up or shut up.
If you have two loaves of bread, sell one and buy a lily.
The vulture perches on the trees because it does not feel sure on the ground.
Не who would catch fish must not mind getting wet.
You are but sowing in sand.
The tail can't shake the dog.
If being well bearded brings happiness. a he-goat must be happier than any of us.
At fifty a man is either the Pope or a fool.
He that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
The stream does not pass over an old stone.
Time longer dan rope.
They shall beat their swords into ploughshares.
A fine shot never killed a bird.
It is foolhardy to start a fire just to see the flames.
From confessors, doctors, and lawyers, do not conceal the truth of your case.
Eat with pleasure, drink with measure.
We have never seen the earth show her teeth.
Don't cross your bridges before you come to them.
When you are pepper, I am mustard; when thou art a needle, I am a knife.
I would not purchase it at the price of a rotten nut.
A mule can go to mecca, but it will not come back as a pilgrim.
The Trojans were wise too late.
The person who knew you when you were young will seldom respect you as an adult.
Add a flower to a bouquet.
Not all flowers are fit for nosegays.
Blow the wind never so fast, it will fall at last.
This proverb is often used to illustrate a person who does not have enough resources to accomplish his goal.
When everyone tells you that you are drunk, go to sleep.
If i listen i have the advantage, if i speak others have it.
A guest unwanted comes at meal time.
Spend words as efficiently as money.
He who has a good next, finds good friends.
You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all.
The king of the dreamers lies in the hospital.
A comb becomes bad when it hurts you.
Love thy neighbour as thyself.
He who begins many things finishes but few.
Too much spoils and too little is not enough.
One hour to-day is worth two to-morrow.
Rocks need no protection from the rain.
An Elder does not break wind in public, but in a latrine.
Speak kind words and you will hear kind answers.
One sword keep another in the sheath.
An empty pantry has a fool housewife.
Every cock crows best on his own dunghill.
What does one hand have? Two hands make a sound.
When the battle is over you make your appearance.
A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks, an ugly girl by the help of a mirror.
Be first in the field, the last to the couch.
When the cat gets too old, the mice are not afraid any more.
If you go to court leave your soul at home.
Liberate me from that bad fellow, myself.
Earnest effort leads some to success.
The helve of the lost hatchet.
Poverty parteth friends.
Patience begins with tears and ends with a smile.
A good conscience is a continual feast.
Those who don't pick roses in summer won't pick them in winter either.
One may be generous at heart, but may not be able to afford it.
Envy for a friend is like the taste of a sour pumpkin.
Nobility without wealth is more worthless than the seaweed which the tide has left.
If you can't bite, better not show your teeth.
Walk in line like the poor house's pigs 'though there was only one.
Slander is more deadly than weapons; weapons wound from close range, slander hurts from a distance.
There is nothing shameful in falling before a superior enemy.
Better half a loaf than none at all.
Des volks stem is Gods stem.
The mouth of a man is a terrible opening.
Fools make feasts and wise men eat them.
Everything has an underlying reason.
Words are like newly hatched eggs: they already have wings.
He who entered Elam -- his lips are sealed.
Trust god and keep your powder dry.
In the eyes of the mouse the cat is a lion.
The old horse will not mistake the road.
Keep several balls in the air.
Young men's knocks old men feel.
There are many good moccasin tracks along the trail of a straight arrow.
What sweetens goat mout does burn e bottom.
The way a cat walks is not the way it catches a rat.
People worry, and God smiles.
Words won't feet cats.
By chance a cripple may catch a hare.
Each day provides its own gifts.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
People working on the slope of a mountain do not look at the buttocks of one another.
Many talk like philosophers yet live like fools.
Old crows are hard to catch.
Ye have a ready mouth for a ripe cherry.
One day cannot make an elephant rot.
As love thinks no evil, so envy speaks no good.
Despair gives courage to a coward.
Where there are no laws, they can't be broken.
Your secret is your blood - when you shed it you die.
Blacksmiths and woodworkers will never suffer from poverty.
Fill fow, and had fow, makes a starke man.
Let every man mind his own business.
If you've never been to a pit latrine, you will never know that cockroach is a chief.
Two hands upon the breast, and labour is past.
I have sifted my flour and hung up the sieve.
Believe your servants but do not listen to them.
As princes fiddle, subjects must dance.
Love for something makes a man blind and deaf.
Without knowledge, without sin.
Everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength.
‘Tis either a hare or a brake-bush.
Never give a child a sword.
Life has given nothing to mortals without great labor. [Nil sine magno vita labore dedit mortalibus.].
Only tall things cast shadows.
Sell not virtue to purchase wealth.
Enjoying the fruits of the labour of others.
Pay back with the same coin.
Let him not be a lover who has not courage.
A bleating sheep eats no grass.
Care shall gnaw thy heart if thou canst not tell all thy mind to another.
A new broom sweeps clean, but the old brush knows all the corners.
When the glow worm lights her lamp, the air is always very damp.
Even a fool has one talent.
Who is over nice, loses many a slice.
Do not insult a crocodile while your feet are still in the water.
For a good dinner and a gentle wife you can afford to wait.
Never judge things of which you only know the shadow.
The doctor can come and go, but he who is sick remains so.
Plenty sits still, hunger is a wanderer.
The horse loves oats; the earth, manure; and the governor, tribute.
Know thyself to know others, for heart beats like heart.
He was born upon St. Galtpert's night, three days before luck.
The well-bred hound, if he does not hunt to-day will hunt to-morrow.
If you don't plant, you get nothing.
When the affected lady is doing well she eats her peas with a pin.
It is impossible to tie a knot without the thumb.
Money is like muck, not good except it be spread. (Francis Bacon)
Present afflictions may tend to our future good.
It will come back, said the man, when he gave his sow pork.
The lazy man is apt to be envious.
A man may lose his goods for want of demanding them.
The fool is always beginning to live.
You cannot sail as you would, but as the wind blows.
Don't be a sling bag.
One is not a thief unless caught stealing.
Friendship does not need pepper to cry.
A horseǃ a horseǃ My kingdom for a horseǃ (William Shakespeare)
If you think you've reached the top, watch out, you can fall just as quickly.
It is easy to find the rod when another finds the bottom.
Who accepts from another sells his freedom.
Contentment is worth more than riches.
Home, dear home, small as thou art, to me thou art a palace.
If you weep for all the sorrows in this world, in the end you will have no eyes.
You can't fit a round peg in a square hole.
The earth compared to the sky.
The waiting man thinks the time long.
A book whos sale's forbidden all men rush to see, and prohibition turns one reader into three.
If you see a couple getting on well, you know it's down to one of them.
The soldier is well paid for doing mischief.
War begun, hell unchained.
The world is like a ladder: some go up and some go down.
He who has a head won't want for a hat.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood.
How can you be burnt by chilies which you have not eaten?.
After lunch, rest; after dinner take a walk.
Rule the roost.
The lame goat does not take a siesta.
A friend is easier lost than found.
You cannot hear a baby cry in the mother's womb.
Wish is power.
Diligence brings delight.
Nothing is comprehensible except by virtue of its edges.
As good be an addled egg as an idle bird.
Don't show a hyena how well you can bite.
Nowadays you must go to heaven to meet an angel.
To be a fool at the right time is also an art.
When you uproot vines as you plant vines, you'll never harvest the grapes.
A fat woman is a blanket for the winter.
At open doors dogs come in.
A weapon is an enemy even to its owner.
He who eats pears with his master should not choose the best.
Though near shore, you're still in the ocean.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. Never say die.
If you want something, you'll do a thousand things to obtain it. But if you don't want something, you'll give a thousand excuses to refrain from it.
When you bump into someone, begging your pardon doesn't put it right.
Never seek the wind in the field. It is useless to try and find what is gone.
Anger against a brother is felt on the flesh, not in the bone.
Don't let the falcon loose until you see the hare.
A single fact is worth a shipload of argument.
It may smell like a melon, but is it going to make you sick?
Don't set out on a journey using someone else's donkey.
He who earns calamity, eats it with his family.
A lord is a lord in hell as well.
Let not your sword be drawn at any man's bidding.
Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will be like him yourself.
A good name is better than wealth.
He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody.
Everyone is master of their own fear.
The heart rules without rules.
Being a swimmer and spending time in the water does not make you a fish.
In the planting season visitors come singly, and in harvest time they come in crowds.
Words without ideas are like sails without wind.
He is dead who is faultless.
Beat one dog and the others will run away.
Never keep a cou when ye can get milk cheap.
Water past will not turn the mill.
Better fifty enemies outside the house than one within.
Women, problems.
Truth cannot be hid under a bushel.
The acre of laziness is full of thistles.
Other years other hairs.
A fly that has no one to advice it, follows the corpse into the grave.
The woman who loves her husband corrects his faults; the man that loves his wife exaggerates them.
Daughters may be seen but not heard.
Most bitter are the quarrels of brothers.
No married woman will have her white hair shaved at her mother's.
The mouse that hath but one hold is soon caught.
When the cat's away, the rats dance.
Two sparrows on the same ear of corn are not long friends.
Civility costs nothing.
In baiting a mousetrap with cheese, always leave room for the mouse.
You wouldn't know how far the town is if you've been taken there.
Who is late will be left without.
When you are in difficulty, go to the house of your friend -- not your sister's.
In the company of the blind, close your eyes.
Nature does nothing in vain.
A mad dog cannot live long.
Many seek good nights and waste good days.
It is not for the blind to give an opinion on colors.
Love has no law.
You have to break a few eggs to make an omelette.
Money is best when counted, a woman is best when beaten.
He that wills not to feed a cat feeds the mice.
Courteous men learn courtesy from the discourteous.
Friends are flowers in the garden of life.
Every little helps, said the sow, when she snapped at a gnat.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
There is a time to fish and a time to dry nets.
That which got bent while growing when you straighten it, it breaks.
Happiness spring - cleans the heart.
Dogs bark and oxen graze.
Men melkt de koe door den hals.
He that would jest must take a jest, or else to let it alone were best.
Good folks are scarce.
Running and buying don't go together -- running and selling do.
Only the knife knows the heart of a pineapple.
Capacious as the sleeve of a monk and patient as the priest with his arms across his chest.
The fairest rose at last is withered.
Evil prospers because good men fail to act.
Even the largest army is nothing without a good general.
Everyone must row with the oars they have.
Avoid the company of a liar. And if you can't avoid him, don't believe him.
A man should go on living - if only to satisfy his curiosity.
A fool by chance may say a wise thing.
If you break a coconut on a man's head, he will not enjoy eating it.
Never trust the advice of a man in difficulty.
It is a long lane that has no turning.
A green Yule makes a fat churchyard.
He that is once at sea, must either sail or sink.
All a doctor's mistakes lie buried.
Every man is a volume if you know how to read him.
Better my own cottage, than the palace of another.
A king for a moment, and a beggar soon after.
You could even hew sticks on head.
One eye on the frying-pan and the other on the cat.
When you pull the tooth, it will stop hurting.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink.
Love is stronger than any addiction, baby. Hell, it is one. - Madea.
Who does not thank for a little will not thank for a lot.
Death spares no one.
Poison is poison though it comes in a golden cup.
A wound foreseen paint the less.
Pretty rose got macca jook.
He who asks for alms blushes once; he who refuses, twice.
If you lose your wife and fifteen pennies -- oh ! what a pity about the money.
A trodden path bears no grass.
His soul comes to him only to sleep there.
If the sea were made of wine, how many drunkards there would be.
Spoken word silver, unspoken gold.
We've drowned in a glass of water.
Morning is wiser than the evening.
Do use a needle in time, or you might need an axe later.
Buying a cat in a bag.
patience is mother of success.
Things for children, apple, almonds and hazel nuts.
He who would the daughter win, with the mother must begin.
It is no use fretting after last winter's snow.
He that brings good news, knocks hard.
Big chickens don't peck at small seeds.
Gold goes in at any gate.
Sooner will the tamarisk bear apples.
Even God our Lord has given way to a drunken man.
Tough times don't last, tough people do.
Day has its eyes, night has its ears.
The point is plain as a pike staff.
You have to forge while the iron is hot.
Trust not your all in one ship.
Fish seek a deep place, men seek a better place.
There's nothing like having the key of the fields.
Rue and time grew baith at ae garden.
The clever bird is easily trapped in the leaves at the edges.
Both the goat has enough to eat and the cabbage remains.
The vulture perches on the trees because it does not feel sure on the groung.
If you want to perform a good jump, sometimes you need to start by taking a step back.
He who cannot even manage a yacht asks for a ship of burthen!
A goat owned by two people sleeps outside.
We will burn a blanket to kill a flea.
It is a grief to one beggar that another stands at the door.
Woman's place is between the stove and fist.
He cannot see the wood for the trees.
A snake that you can see does not bite.
Pay what you owe and you'll know what you're worth.
De sea en' get nuh back door.
He who hesitates is lost.
Every man thinks his own owl a falcon.
He that hath been bitten by a serpent is afraid of a rope.
Better than gold is a tale rightly told.
You should kiss the hand that you can't bend.
Learning is the eye of the mind.
Hat in hand goes through the land.
Silk is cut best with old scissors.
Test the danger by the Carians.
Gold and green woods.
Stolen fruit is the sweetest. (Strauss, 1994 p. 835)
How can one start a fast with baklava in one's hand.
I might have lost my ring, but I still have my fingers.
It's gude to be out o' harm's gate.
The one who enters the Turkish bath must never turn his back on a Greek.
The sickness of the body is the cure of the mind.
When the elderly ones in a house travel, the younger ones quickly grow in experience.
As is the workman, so is the work.
A man overboard, a mouth less to feed.
Better be first in a village than second at Rome.
He who buts a horse buys care.
He who has a straw tail is always in fear of its catching fire.
Women have no upright words, but only crooked ones.
An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head.
A different way of thingking in every person.
If you think you're too small to be noticed go and sleep in a room which is full of mosquitoes.
The one-eyes is a king in the land of the blind.
Beware of silent dogs and still waters.
There's more than one way to skin a cat.
You would weave a rope of sand.
When you know that people are watching you, there are things that you don't do.
The madman often tells the truth.
Better late than never.
God said, God said, "Eat and drink," but He didn't say, "Gorge to the full."
Greatness and beauty do not belong to the gods alone.
A man without a woman is a tree without leaves and branches.
Today must not borrow from tomorrow.
Loud cheeps the mouse, when the cat's no rustling.
Pride joined with many virtues chokes them all.
I'd rather have them say "There he goes" than "Here he lies."
Today to me, tomorrow to you, we're all in it together.
If a woman doesn't know what she has to answer then the sea is dry.
He who saves in little things, can be liberal in great ones.
A miss is as good as a mile.
What is true is no more sure than the probable.
Out of small acorns grow mighty oaks.
Wipe your sore eye with your elbow.
Where you lost your cloak, seek it.
If you find no fish, you have to eat bread.
An ugly child of your own is more to you than a beautiful one belonging to your neighbor.
Don't be fooled by how clean the turban is, the soap was probably bought on credit.
Don't let your sorrow come higher than your knees.
The rain wets the leopard's spots but does not wash them off.
That which has been thrown away has often to be begged for again.
Instead of a fish he gives you a scorpion.
Who sows what shall reap that.
After nine months the secret comes out.
The pen wounds deeper than an arrow.
Small profits are good if they come often.
The worst devil is the one who prays.
Rather a man without a cow for the summer than without a wife for christmas night.
A man's faults all conform to his type of mind. Observe his faults and you may know his virtues.
A secret for two, soon a secret for nobody.
Pepper is small but strong.
He who wants to talk with the dogs must learn to bark.
Honesty is praised and left to starve.
A blind man may sometimes shoot a crow.
Never pick up what you didn't put down.
Make yourself honey and the flies will eat you.
Poor thieves in halters we behold; And great thieves in their chains of gold.
First cobwebs, then chains.
Where the heart would go, there follows the foot.
The tip of a finger cannot be touched by itself.
Regularity is the best medicine.
It is dear-bought butter that is licked off a woolcomb.
Absent friends get further away every day.
They who shun the smoke often fall into the fire.
If regret was a horn, one's horn would reach the sky.
Strength avails not a coward.
When the eyes see nothing, the heart feels nothing.
Common fame seldom lies.
No one says, "my pasture is not sweet.”.
I am not here to catch flies.
He that does not ask will never get a bargain.
In movement, there is blessing.
Africa is a cold land where the sun is warm.
Nature draws stronger than seven oxen.
MHÄ = Moon Härmästä. Lions-klubi Härmät. Otava, 1976, ISBN 951-1-04141-X.
Who would win, must learn to bear.
The more danger, the more honor.
Never buy through your ears but through your eyes.
Away from the eye, out of the heart.
Those who attack, though they die in the attempt.
Misfortune comes to all men.
Whoever has bitten a sour apple will enjoy the sweet one all the more.
When a man repeats a promise again and again, he means to fail you.
All the water in the sea doesn't even reach the knees of the man who fears not death.
Make a loan and lose a friend.
It is fairer to listen to the string that broke than to never strain a bow.
A true word needs no oath.
While trying to pull down something from the antique she lost what she had under her armpit.
The remedy is often worse than the disease.
There is a feast once even in Hell.
One need not inherit wealth if he inherits good manners.
Come it aire, come it late, in May comes the Cow-quake.
Do not make jokes that cost more than a ruble.
Fish don't get caught in deep water.
A husband and wife often fight intensely at one moment and then kiss intensely at the next moment.
Better one eye-witness than ten hearsay witnesses.
Every light hath its shadow.
Even a small star shines in the dark.
Courtesy is the password to safety.
Men see more of the business of others than of their own.
Sin is the root of much sorrow.
Poor men go to heaven as soon as rich.
The owner of the dog does not obey his dog.
the destiny of a coward comes from over him.
A tear in the eye is a wound in the heart.
Counsel is no command.
When you tell the truth, have one foot in the stirrup.
Never fry a fish till it's caught.
If you have no enemies it's a sign fortune has forgot you.
Unfortunates learn from their own mistakes, and the lucky ones learn from other's mistakes.
Every man leaves his footprints.
Adversity is the foundation of virtue.
Appetite comes in eating.
A prudent man does not make the goat his gardener.
To every lord every honour.
A liar can go round the world but cannot come back.
Beautiful day, a gift for the traveller.
The hollow of the ear is never full.
Whosoever chooses to deny their past can not expect to find a future.
A buckle is a great addition to an old shoe.
Milk the cow, but don't pull off the udder.
Feckless fouk are aye fain of anither.
The folly of a man is not broadcast like that of a woman.
I poured our own flour and hung our hair-sieve.
It is usual of a person found guilty in a trial to boast that he would press his case further.
If a man deceive me once, shame on him; but if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
If you burn a house, can you conceal the smoke?
How to live happily, not luxuriously, is the question.
Bairns mother burst never.
Too late the bird cries out when it is caught.
Even the fool is thought wise if he remains silent.
Good blood will never lie.
Pouring water from above the roof of a tall building.
Where two Jews, three opinions.
A mule who goes in search of a fine set of antlers, will come back with his ears cut off.
A fool sees not the same tree that a wise man sees. (William Blake)
One man is born to money, and another to the purse.
Advertising is the driving force of business.
An empty barrel sounds better.
When bulls fight, woe to the frogs.
Men are not angels.
No bread is too hard for warm coffee.
Carry bread in your hood to Don Garcia's wedding.
It's no good to sprick the bear with a needle.
Around a flowering tree, there are many insects.
Idle men tempt the devil; the devil tempts all others.
You ask the donkey when's Wednesday?
Necessity becomes will.
Men laugh with their heart, women only with their mouth.
I would not wipe my muddy boots in him.
You are like a flower in the middle of nettles.
Never trust the man who tells you all his troubles but keeps from you all his joys.
He who is an ass and takes himself to be a stag finds his mistake when he comes to leap the ditch.
Where there is breast there can be no brain.
Doubts --- helped a man to live, to grow, or to build.
As long as a language lives, the people will not perish.
To every saint his torch.
Barking saves biting.
Small wells are better to quench your thirst.
One little arrow does not kill a serpent.
Don't curse the darkness, light a candle.
Very good corn grows in little fields.
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.
A man is as wise as his head, not his years.
When money talks, everyone else is silent.
High regions are never without storms.
Teach your son in the front garden and your wife on the pillow.
He who does evil to others, does it to himself.
We are all well placed, said the cat, when she was seated on the bacon.
He who drinks and walks away lives to drink another day.
Today's beneficiary is the incarnation of his preexisting well-doer; the fate of one's next existence lies in his existence today.
Meat does not eat meat.
Trick against trick.
Man noh done cross riva, noh fi cuss alligator long mout long.
He who would stop every man's mouth must have a great deal of meal.
Food will last while the forests last.
Time and opportunity are in no man's sleeve.
A goose quill is more dangerous than a lion's claw.
Short reckonings make long friends.
Another's care hangs by a hair.
You pull chestnuts from the fire with a cat's paws.
A man has to hold his mouth open a long time before a roasted partridge flies into it.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Never try to prove what nobody doubts.
He burns the candle at both ends.
A half the truth is often a whole lie.
Earning a living is as hard as splitting the red sea.
A witch-wife and an evil is three-halfpence worse than the devil.
Hair of the dog that bit you.
The living who is absent is like a dead man.
Ink, if not used, will dry up.
Mother raises the boy, woman makes the man.
No lama knows where the ber-chhen will hurt him until he puts it on.
A churl never liked a gentleman.
He that fights and runs away, may live to fight another day.
No matter how hidden a force is, it will attract some kind of resistance.
Compromise is always a temporary achievement.
What you give, is written in sand; what you take, with an iron hand.
The bird hunting a locust is unaware of the hawk hunting him.
The deil made souters sailors that can neither steer nor row.
Sitting with the hands in the hair.
One must glean at harvest time.
For the benefit of the flowers, we water the thorns, too.
One can't shoe a running horse.
Never check the teeth of a horse that has been given by a wealthy landowner.
He who has brothers has more than riches can buy.
If you are travelling in the blind man's country close one eye.
Don't open a shop unless you know how to smile.
Antiquity is entitled to respect.
When a snake gets warm on ice, then a German will wish well to a Czech.
He that would make a fool of himself will find many to help him.
If you plant melons, you get melons; if you plant beans, you get beans.
Too late to grieve when the chance is past.
Do not speak of evil for it creates curiosity in the hearts of the young.
A nod for a wise man, and a rod for a fool.
The devil likes to hide behind a cross.
Nosy Barbara's nose was torn off at the market.
Happiness invites envy.
If the child does not cry, the mother won't know what it wants.
God save me from him who studies but one book.
Lord, make us shepherds in spring and swineherds in winter.
A strange glass is emptied in one draught; your own glass not even in ten.
It is unwise for one to think that a hen will ever be accorded respect in the land of the hawks.
Ask not what your profits can do for you, but what you can do for your profits.
The teeth that cannot move in unison cannot bit a piece of meat.
There is no pot so bad but finds it cover.
An englishman's word is his bond.
Once a buffoon, never a good father of a family.
One bird in the hand is better than two on the roof.
She is well married who has neither mother-in-law nor sister-in-law.
Offer not the right hand of friendship to every one.
Young man, countries practice witchcraft on one another.
God laughs when you steal from a thief.
There are many paths up the mountain, but the view from the top is always the same.
The son shoots a leopard; the father is proud.
The torment of envy is like a grain of sand in the eye.
The world is a ladder for some to go up and others down.
Buying is cheaper than asking.
By the living we bury the dead.
It is easy to dodge a spear that comes in front of you but hard to avoid an arrow shot from behind.
Between saying and doing there is a long road.
Men leap over where the hedge is lowest.
Venture not to defend what your judgment doubts of.
You can out run that which is running after you but not that that's running inside of you.
You can't have two forenoons in the same day.
Laziness is often mistaken for patience.
Armenian Proverbs and Sayings, Translated into English by R. Gevorg Bayyan, Academy of St. Lazarus, Venice, 1889.
If you don't want anyone to know, don't do it.
In the South they don't care how close you get, as long as you don't get too high. In the North, they don't care how high you get, as long as you don't get too close.
Our first teacher is our own heart.
He who turns aside avoids danger.
Complain to someone who can help you.
If you steal from a thief, you also have a taste of it.
Hunger looks in at the industrious man's door but dares not enter.
Love cannot be bought or sold its only price is love.
Fox's broth, cold and scalding.
If the father marries the aunt, he's an uncle.
After the sour comes the sweet.
In marriage cheat who can.
Many fall by the sword, but more from gluttony.
Where there is fish, there is water.
He who runs away from the fire, falls in the water.
Better skaith sav'd than mends made.
Black christmas, white easter.
Seeing is poison for the eyes.
Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks.
There is no love without jealousy.
Talk to a priest and die a thousand deaths.
God helps the early riser.
Mouth shut and eyes open.
A man grows most tired while standing still.
If it's not your time, you won't be born and you won't die.
Words in mouth, no load upon head.
You play with edged tools.
He that is busy is tempted but by one devil, he that is idle by a legion.
Wherever the head goes, the tail will follow.
If the man in front falls into a hole, do not follow him.
Who cannot beat the horse let him beat the saddle.
No sweet without sweat.
The voice of the people is the will of god.
He who has not been given brains from above will not buy them at the apothecary.
If you don't sell your head, no one will buy it.
It's better to eat pepper and be happy than to eat honey and be sad.
Bright enough in the dark, dull in time of day. [Learned in what is of no use, ignorant of everything at all available.].
Once a cock begins to crow, it never again becomes dumb.
You monk, do you want us to give you in marriage?
Bought wisdom is best.
A fat kitchen, a lean testament.
Black souls wear white shirts.
God gives the nuts, but he doesn't crack them.
Although he who walks behind an elephant may feel very secure, he is likely to get splattered with elephant dung.
If a person is away, his right is away.
The best of nursing may overcome the worst disease.
The third time someone tries to put a saddle on you, you should admit you're a horse.
In a court of fowls, the cockroach never wins his case.
Counsel is nae command.
He has gained enough who gives up a vain hope.
He shaves close to the skin.
A sin concealed is half forgiven.
All things grow with time, except grief.
Hope is life.
An old loan repaid is like finding something new.
An ambassador beareth no blame.
Do not allow the sheep to die for a halfpenny of tar.
An idle man is the devil's pillow.
The ant shall never crawl on its knees.
The pen of the tongue should be dipped in the ink of the heart.
He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance.
A poet is born not made.
Man with four balls can't walk.
An ounce of fortune is worth a pound of forecast.
He that cannot beat the horse beats the saddle.
He who leans against a big tree will always find shade.
Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come.
Sheep-killing dogs are vicious.
A man combs his hair every morning -- why not his heart?
Same donkey, different saddle.
Every sun has to set.
An imaginary ailment is worse than a disease.
Our pleasures are shallow, our sorrows are deep.
A still Sow eats all the Draff.
A debt may get moldy, but it never decays.
A day of hunger is not starvation.
Treachery returns.
A loving man, a jealous man.
A woman's tongue is a double edged knife.
Men should worry about fame just as pigs about being fat.
Have fun while you live, because you are going to be dead a long time.
The night has ears.
Do not allow anger to poison you.
No matter how worthless a man may be, kill him and see how much he costs you.
In childhood you are palyful, In youth you are lustful In old age you are feeble, So when will you before God be worshipful?
Women and cats in the house, men and dogs in the street.
They will expel him who speaks the truth from nine villages.
Among friends and relatives don't buy or sell anything.
There are no incurable diseases but only incurable people.
A man should not, out of pride and etiquette, swallow his phlegm.
If one is harsh in words
Men made money; money never made men.
When you plant a yam it produces another yam.
Life's battle don't always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
He who has no bread has no authority.
Wrong cannot rest, nor ill deed stand.
By night all cats are grey.
Seeing is different from being told.
Man's greatest battles are the ones he fights within himself.
The bird ought not to soil its own nest.
A watched flower never blooms, while a carelessly planted willow grows into shade.
From a big cloud comes little rain.
It is as much intemperance to weep too much, as to laugh too much.
You can't learn courage.
Who builds on the mob builds on sand.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than sword.
I know entirely what kind of person you are.
When the cat hops around, bad weather is on the way.
Where God has a church the devil will have his chapel.
Hens keep quiet when the cock is around.
Foxes come at last to the furrier's.
All state, and nothing on the plate.
Talent and poverty, wealth and stupidity generally dwell together.
The sea breeze blows the pelican where he wants to go.
A hired horse and one's own spurs make short miles.
Bad is the best choice.
Cold as charity. (14th century)
He fled from the rain and sat down under the waterspout.
A person who is extremely cautious in doing something.
Two communists lead three hundred unaffiliated.
When the hen had laid an egg she cackles.
Love your neighbour, but don't pull down the fence.
Speaking is silver, silence is gold.
Hand plow can't make furrows by itself.
A beggar's wallet is never full.
Nine days wonders are forgotten soon after that.
He who eats and drinks with the rich leaves the table hungry.
You cannot applaud with one hand.
If you do not have sandals, find some, if you do not have gun powder, find some for a score to settle with you on the battle grounds.
Ask advice of an ignorant man and he will think you are his enemy.
Even the highest tree has an axe waiting at its foot.
A one-inch error at the start can be a thousand miles at the end.
Hitherto I gave you credit for having horns.
If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain. If you want 10 years of prosperity, grow trees. If you want 100 years of prosperity, grow people.
Wolf in sheep's clothing.
The people's voice, God's voice.
If you wish for peace, be ready for war.
Too much prosperity makes most men fools.
What a young absorbs, the old loses.
A girl only gets pregnant once.
Hit the iron while it's still hot.
A penny is a lot of money, if you have not got a penny.
Many heroes appear after the war.
Anyone who goes hungry for three days will be inclined to steal.
What is Past is Prologue.
A cowboy doesn't ride a bull for fame he rides because he loves riding.
When your companions get drunk and fight, Take up your hat, and wish them good night.
Cold hands warm heart.
Do you carry the trough, husband, and I will carry the sieve, which is as heavy as the devil.
A hero is a man who is afraid to run away.
It is inevitable that two thighs will rub against each other.
The ass of many owners is eaten by wolves.
Patience can break through iron doors.
Two in distress makes sorrow the less.
Great consolation may grow out of the smallest saying.
A clear conscience is a coat of mail.
If you laugh at the bowl, you laugh at the potter.
Don't insult the alligator until you've crossed the river.
Woe to being a housewife/househusband, you buy one thing, you don't have two others.
No person born great. Great people become great when others are sleeping.
A salesman has pig's soul, sheep's brain and dog's conscience.
When they wish to eat a vulture, they call it a guinea fowl.
To remain young while growing old is the highest blessing.
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
If you have not been to two different bazaars, then you do not know what the best value is.
Measure seven times, cut once.
He who would go further than his horse, must alight and go on foot.
Let no one look into your heart or into your purse.
No matter if the child's born with a flat nose, as long as it breathes.
The law is read in nine ways and always right.
No one feels the pains that arise from unintended injury.
Acts of kindness may soon be forgotten, but the memory of an offense remains.
He who tells no lies will not grow up.
When candles are out all cats are grey.
Do not wake up the sleeping bear.
Even the most welcome guest is more than enough for three days.
The hare starts from where it is least expected.
You cannot roast corn with two eyes.
When we sing everybody hears us; when we sigh, nobody hears us.
A dog that has forced its head into a pitcher is greedy.
Never reveal the bottom of your purse or the depth of your mind.
Better one true friend than a hundred relatives.
The friendship of a great man is like the shadow of a bush -- soon gone.
People who have bread to eat do not appreciate the severity of a famine.
The wolf is beaten not for being grey, but for having eaten a sheep.
if one disdains, one wants to buy.
The cock that crows at the wrong time is killed.
To think that larks will fall into one's mouth ready roasted.
The curse on the hearth wounds the deepest.
The Emperor of Germany is the king of kings, the King of Spain king of men, the King of France king of asses, the King of England king of devils.
Footprints on the sands of time are not made by sitting down.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
After dinner a kuru kills a man or kidnaps a woman.
To God's council-chamber there is no key.
Ants surround the dying elephant.
The tooth is a fool because it smiles to whom it even dislikes.
Drinking fake ale is better then drinking water.
Donkeys only come to the court to carry bags.
He that is bitten by a dog must apply some of its hair.
It's tint that is done to old men and bairns.
Borrow causes sorrow.
By candle-light a goat looks like a lady.
Better to eat beans in peace than to eat meat in distress.
The dog that kills wolves, is killed by wolves.
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Example can be better than precept.
It is good fishing in drumbling waters.
Sickness is a thing of the spirit.
Tasty food, plenty of food, food in the right time – and peace at mealtimes.
Soldiers don't cry.
The church, the sea, or the royal household, for whoever would thrive.
The boy is father to the man.
If you lend your coat, don't cut off the buttons.
Fast bind, fast find;
When you can't get meat, chickens and bacon are good.
There is no pleasure that does not cause one's cheeks to tremble.
A green grass in the green snake.
Pure gold does not fear the smelter.
The best way to get praise is to die.
He that makes one basket can make a hundred.
As you bake so shall you brew.
A cat that meweth much catcheth but few mice.
There is no rose without thorns.
Teach a crocodile to swim.
He has soaked a hundred heads, but hasn't shaved one.
Paczolay, Gyula (1997). "1". European proverbs: in 55 languages, with equivalents in Arabic, Persian, Sanskrit, Chinese and Japanese. Veszprémi Nyomda. p. 33. ISBN 1-875943-44-7.
Do not choose your wife on your way to the church.
Live patiently in the world; know that those who hate you are more numerous than those who love you.
You do not look for a black sheep at night.
Real success is success of the soul.
When God pleases, it rains with every wind.
The most difficult mountain to cross is the threshold.
Enough food and a pipe full of tobacco makes you equal to the immortals.
He who takes a woman gives away his freedom.
No one is so rich that he can do without a good neighbor.
Never offer to teach a fish to swim.
Truth lies at the bottom of a well.
Living mindlessly is paradise.
Let God's waters run over God's acres.
A soft answer turns away wrath.
Seven versts# to heaven, and all the way through the forest.
To relax the mind is to lose it.
Under the sackcloth there is something else.
If one soldier knew what the other thinks, there would be no war.
An old enemy never becomes a friend.
High houses are mostly empty in the upper story.
Dutch: Don't throw away your old shoes till you have got new ones.
Standing pools gather filth.
Eleven persons take eleven paths.
An old man in love is like a flower in winter.
The book and the sword descended from heaven together.
...God gave me my talent and I was afraid of facing him one day if I didn't use it.
There is always a winner even in a monkey's beauty contest.
I ran from the wolf but ran into a bear.
Never sit in the place of a man who can say to you, "rise.”.
He who is wasting away with trouble must seek remedy.
I tried to do charity, I burned.
Must guide by hands the tongue, said Ruovisto when he taught Oskari English.
The tongue can paint what the eye can't see.
A doctor will take care of the rich man; the poor man is cured with work.
There is a loose stitch with him.
Plant the crab-tree where you will, it will never bear pippins.
He who has gold is served by the devil.
He that bulls the cow must keep the calf.
Shame shall fall them that shame thinks, to do themselves a good turn.
He who gives a duck, expects a goose.
A garden without a fence is like a dog without a tail.
A fool stands always in the rain.
If you are on a road to nowhere, find another road.
We never know the worth of water till the well is dry.
Even paradise is no fun without people.
He who really wants to die will not complain if he is buried standing up.
Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour.
The hero appears only when the tiger is dead.
A borrower may not lend the thing he borrowed.
It is better to have to do with God than with his saints.
Great men's vices are accounted sacred.
Envy goes beyond avarice.
One neighbor's fowl seems a goose to another neighbor.
When a man is down, everybody runs over him.
He who is too proud to ask is too good to receive.
Good things are never cheap.
A man who always wears his best kimono has no Sunday clothes.
First prove your brotherhood, then claim inheritance.
Having no ointment and box why do you pose as hairdresser.
Cheerfulness, helpfulness and honesty are fine, good companions to take with you through life.
Don't throw out the baby with the bath water.
The cherry blossom among flowers, the warrior among men.
A dream grants what one covets when awake.
Do not allow the belly to make you useless.
The obscure we see eventually. The completely apparent takes longer.
Repentance won't cure mischief.
A good conscience is better than a big wage.
Birds of a feather flock together.
It is better for the eyes to die than the heart.
Never too late to learn.
The base of a lighthouse is dark.
It is in the eyes of a lazy man that maize will ripen.
Soon enough is well enough.
One does not look for good from good.
Ambition spills the sack.
It is not the hen which cackles most that lays most eggs.
There is better fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
Strain not your bow beyond its bent, lest it break.
A hammer will shatter glass yet it can forge steel.
Only in water can you learn to swim.
It's no use carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking.
A borrowed cloak does not keep one warm.
In a good word there are three winters' warmth; in one malicious word there is pain for six frosty months.
The hand you cannot bite, kiss.
A cat in its castle has lion's teeth.
It's the early bird that gets the worm.
Fancy surpasses beauty.
I shall teach you to pipe into glove.
The apple doesn't fall far away from the apple-tree.
One failure leads to another; so does success.
Wash a dog, comb a dog, still a dog remains a dog.
God is closest to those with broken hearts.
Only people who work make mistakes.
What is the use of running when we are on the wrong.
The person who is coming from the bowels of the earth doesn't despise even the smallest amount of sunshine.
In twenty-four hours, a house can become a patriarch.
Sugared words generally prove bitter.
He who has given up doesn't blame the one moving on.
If man has no tea in him, he is incapable of understanding truth and beauty.
What comes easily is lost easily.
If you refuse the advice of an elder, you will walk until sunset.
The frog wanted to be as big as the elephant, and burst.
Speak, that I may see thee.
You can't kid your conscience.
If you are looking for a fly in your food it means that you are full.
Weeds never perish.
Leave the joke when it pleases the most.
Even the king saves his money.
I'm tired of Love: I'm still more tired of Rhyme. But Money gives me pleasure all the time. (Hilaire Belloc)
A chicken's prayer doesn't affect a hawk.
The apple falls not so far away from the apple-tree.
A man who eases himself in public, gives cause to others to despise him.
To mad words deaf ears.
One doesn't shear naked sheep.
To engage in conflict, one does not bring a knife that cuts -but a needle that sews.
Charge your friend ere you need.
There ain't no such thing as a free lunch.
When the master of the house tells a lie, and then offers him a chair.
A jackfish does more than a letter of recommendation.
With gold in your pocket you are wise, you are handsome, and you dance well too.
A woman has got seven souls.
Marriage is a lick of honey and a barrel of bitter.
Who has a mouth, let him not say to another, "Blow!”.
A handful of good life, is better than a bushel of learning.
Punishment is lame but it comes.
Industry is the parent of fortune.
It's better to see once than hear a hundred times.
What is learned in the cradle is carried to the grave.
Industry is fortune's right hand and frugality her left.
Except for my father and my mother everybody lies.
It is easy to preach fasting with a fully belly.
That which covers thee discovers thee.
In a deal there are two fools: the one who asks too much and the one who asks too little.
Hear both sides of a question.
Cats don't catch mice to please God.
The predator lands on an unknown tree.
Literal meaning: The sultan's sword is long.
The lawyer's pouch is a mouth of Hell.
A river drowns the one who can swim.
We were many, and grandma gave birth!
Don't pull hard enough to break the rope.
When the pear is ripe it falls by itself.
Don't celebrate until you are across the brook.
The fisherman fishes in troubled water.
If a beard were all, the goat would be the winner.
Too much rain makes the green grain fall over.
Vexations, duly borne, Are but as trials, which heaven's love to man Sends for his good.
You do not teach a giraffe to run.
Like a fish, one should look for a hole in the net.
In life, each of us must sometimes play the fool.
Even the hardest of winters fears the spring.
One candle for St. Michael, and another for his devil.
It is not enough to run, one must arrive and know when one has arrived.
Ask not a saint of his caste; ask of his knowledge.
Close the door and beat the dog.
The loss of one night's sleep is followed by ten days of inconvenience.
Greedy greedy, give the hog some. Why, the hog does wuk?
To share is sweet, but to pay is bitter.
Losing comes of winning money.
While the grass grows, the steed starves.
We hounds flew the Hare, quoth the messoun.
When the river dries up, we will all see where the crocodile sleeps.
If words fail no others will avail.
An empty vessel makes the most sound.
Better stretch your hand than your neck.
Well-married is when you have no mother-in-law and no sister-in-law.
The mountaineer's ass carries wine and drinks water.
The block of wood should not dictate to the carver.
Live and let live.
To get to know people, you have to eat a full donkey's cargo of salt together.
If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to. [If fair means cannot, foul shall.].
Don't expect to be offered a chair when you are visiting a place where the chief sits on the floor.
A confused man is like the drowning man who asks for pears from the willow tree.
Custom in infancy becomes nature in old age.
Better ruined ten times than dead once.
Criticism of the state is all right, but don't forget the nation is you.
The first favor is a favor, the second an obligation.
You will know what something is really worth, when you loose it forever.
Tomorrow is the busiest day of the year.
Tell God the truth, but give the judge money.
There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country.
If lies were Latin, there would be many learned men.
What people in distress most wish for, they most readily believe.
Smart people get the point from a single hint.
If i am virtuous and worthy, for whom should i not maintain a proper concern?
Security is nowhere safe.
Hunger makes hard beans sweet.
Three hundred ravens are scattered by one stone.
Sorrow follows pleasure.
One who carries a pot of honey doesn't envy the sugarcane farmer.
Inner peace and love are the greatest of God's gifts.
All work asks for diligence.
At the bottom of the lighthouse it is dark.
There is more to honesty than meets the eye.
The lazy man always does twice the work.
When someone claims an inheritance, he sometimes has to pay for the funeral.
Offer the lazy man an egg, and he'll want you to peel it for him.
There is no cure against a slanderer's bite.
Welcome is the best cheer.
Plan your year in the spring, your day at dawn.
A cast is not a catch.
He that flies high falls low down.
A hot sun with a lot of wind, I go home and I am happy.
Such awkward things will happen as going into the great square and coming back without ears.
By cultivating bottom land, you gain sustenance and goods.
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.
When a finger points at the moon, the imbecile looks at the finger.
There's nothing worse for an intelligent person than to put a fool beside him.
The very thing one likes, one does well.
If a man would know what he is, let him anger his neighbours.
There is no need to feed the dog that follows.
It is because of man we wear swords.
A lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is still putting on its shoes.
What may be done at ony time will be done at nae time.
A mile walk with a friend has only one hundred steps.
For one mission, there is one leader.
Riches take away more pleasures than they give.
Acknowledgement is half of correction.
Little by little the bird makes his nest.
Who cares well for cats will marry as happily as he or she could ever wish.
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it.
When the fox licks his paw let the farmer look after his geese.
Make yourself an ass, and every one will lay his sack on you.
Many people can pack the cards; fewer can play the game.
Hunger is the best cook.
A runaway monk never speaks well of his convent.
An unfortunate man would be drowned in a teacup.
Better an old man's darling than a young man's slave.
The flimsier the product, the higher the price.
People who are asleep can't fall down.
Never has a man more need of his intelligence than when a fool asks him a question.
Don't rest your eyes beyond what is your own.
After the rain, fine weather.
He who loves Peter won't harm his dog.
He who is desperate will squeeze oil out of a grain of sand.
Like counsellor, like counsel.
He who follows the crowd has many companions.
Elbow grease is the best polish.
Youth may stray afar yet return at last.
He who has been stung by the scorpion is frightened at its shadow.
A woman's work is never done.
He that finds something before it is lost, will die before he is sick.
No one will choose you if they're not like you.
Who goes not, sees not; who proves not, believes not.
Often a branch is broken off the tree by the one who has rested in its shadow.
Hunger finds no fault with cookery.
One dog snarls at a shadow; a hundred howl at each other's barking.
A good horse and a bad horse need the spur; a good woman and a bad woman need the stick.
Death is a giant against whom even the Tsars must draw weapons.
What's gone, is gone.
A horse stumbles that has four legs.
A man who smiles when he's been robbed has stolen something from the thief.
A friend when in need is a faithful friend.
Wise men talk about ideas, intellectuals about facts, and the ordinary man talks about what he eats.
When the tiger kills, the jackal profits.
Who has a woman has an eel by the tail.
Leave not your staff at home.
The feast passes and the fool remains.
There's no living without friends.
An ounce of mother-wit is worth a pound of school-wit.
Do it as if there was fire in your skin.
Do not blow in the bear's ear.
Cactus is bitter only to him who tastes it.
Let the person in responsibility take care of the matter, as is the most able.
Friends are lost by calling too often and by not calling often enough.
When it rains in August, it rains honey and wine.
That which comes with sin, goes with sorrow.
A little fire burns up a great deal of corn.
A wise companion is half the journey.
Too many candles will burn down the church.
However bright the sun may shine, leave not your cloak at home.
Do in Hill, as ye wald do in Hall.
The leek resembles its seed and little Hassan takes after his father.
A blind person does not forget his walking stick.
For a thirsty ox dirty water will do as well.
He who doesn't know a grave's coldness, doesn't give the dead their respect.
When given a kingdom, the gypsy asks: what about bread?
There are no birds of this year in last year's nests.
The mouth is the door of evil.
Ignorance is not privileged by titular degrees.
Pride feels no pain.
The person who does not ask will never get a bargain.
Revenge is a dish that can be eaten cold.
Who frequents the kitchen smells of smoke.
Its better to drive four horses than a donkey.
Suspicions amongst thoughts are like bats amongst birds, they ever fly by twilight. (Francis Bacon)
Knowledge conquered by labour becomes a possession.
Raining cats and dogs.
For sulphur, wheat, wine, and wool, come to the towns of Sicily.
No matter how powerful a man, he cannot make the rains fall on his farm alone.
Two boots make a pair.
The nearer the inn, the longer the road.
Here there will be different buns, said the baker, he "sat down" on the bread shovel.
He who digs a pit for others falls into it himself.
To eat and to scratch one has but to begin.
The mind is like a bag; everyone has one.
A good farmer is know by his crops.
The hard road turns the traveller into the same dust that he has to swallow.
Mi come here fi drink milk, mi noh come here fi count cow.
The stones of my native country are warmer than the ovens of Babylon.
Do not waste your ginger on pigs.
It's all grist to the mill.
Lambs don't runs with the mouth of the sleeping wolf.
The dog barks, the pig eats.
At the bar of one's own conscience.
He confides the cabbage to the goat.
Don't plant more garden than your wife can care for.
Better to pay and have little than have much and be in debt.
You don't really see the world if you only look through your own window.
It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground.
He who does not open his eyes must open his purse.
A woman will not be given a leash.
Don't spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar.
Good habits result from resisting temptation.
At a round table there is no dispute about place.
A piece of iron can only become what the blacksmith says it should become.
An ant hole may collapse an embankment.
Drunkards talk to the gods.
There is a path to the top of even the highest mountain.
Refrain: (twice)
New advice for a new business.
It's hard to scare a person who thinks he will benefit from dying.
Burn your enemies caravan and you burn you future.
Where the carrion is, there the eagles gather.
Better good sale, nor good Ale.
When the hyena is gone, that is when the dog barks.
Eild should hae honour.
The smaller the heart, the longer the tongue.
The sun shines during the day, not at night.
The right hand is slave to the left.
Every man has a secret corner of his mind that nobody will ever know.
Monkeys don't advise there young ones to be careful on trees they just remind them of the distance to the ground.
Common sense is genius dressed in its working clothes.
To be prepared is to have no anxiety.
There are some who despise pride with a greater pride.
A joke can break the earring.
Don't ask the singer to sing until he wishes to sing by himself.
You can catch more flies with honey than you can with vinegar.
Hunger is misery; a full stomach is trouble.
Hunger and thirst scarcely kill any, But gluttony and drink kill a great many.
If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket.
A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot.
It is prosperity that gives us friends, adversity that proves them.
The heart is a locket that does not open easily.
While two dogs are fighting for a bone, a third runs away with it.
You compare the bee to the grasshopper.
Five minutes of health comfort the ill one.
Men can acquire knowledge, but not wisdom. Some of the greatest fools ever known were learned men.
Don't look at the shape -- look at the character.
It is well said, but who will bell the Cat?
Criticism of the brave is behind his back.
Covetousness is always filling a bottomless vessel.
Early ripe, early rotten.
East or west, home is best.
The son-in-law's sack is never full.
He who listens to a proposition is already half sold.
A prejudice is a vagrant opinion without visible means of support. (Ambrose Bierce)
When you rely too much on reason, you end up not relying enough on feeling.
Were the sky to fall, not an earthen pot would be left whole.
Words are feminine, deeds masculine.
My sister's son is a kinsman beyond dispute.
A crow will never be a dove.
Help is good everywhere, except in the porridge-bowl.
The butcher looked for his knife and it was in his mouth.
Empty pots will never boil over.
Those who hunt deer sometimes raise tigers.
We are all Adam's children, but silk makes the difference.
When the fruit fails, welcome haws.
A horse falls though he has four legs.
The arrogant army will lose the battle for sure.
All dreams spin out from the same web.
O, sheep if I do not eat you, you will eat me, said the hyena.
For a drunk, the sea is knee-deep (, and a puddle ear-deep).
Do not gaze at the sky from the bottom of a well.
The evil field will evil yield.
If my belly is of glass, I will fill it with bread and chicken; if it is a closed cellar, I will fill it with cockroaches.
Stumbling is not falling.
Who rides a tiger cannot dismount.
‘so near and yet so far,' said the man when the bird lit on his gun.
If the price is the same, choose the people usually the good instead of the bad, unless it's a product of spirit.
Candour once went further boldly and in smiles, but it crept home in tatters and tears.
Those who lose dreaming are lost.
Handfuls make up a load.
Cats hide their claws.
The child that falls by itself does not cry.
Only your nail scratches your skin.
Vision with action is a daydream; action without vision is a nightmare.
In dark weather the devil is in the air.
Consult the wise and do not disobey him.
Sweet wine makes sour vinegar.
You can stop a bird from flying over you, but you can't stop it building a nest.
If you would have your work ill done, pay beforehand.
Anguish is our worst advisor.
Riches bring care and fears.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
[Only] grave will cure the hunchback.
Every dog is allowed one bite.
The head of your neighbor is a kingdom and his heart a wood.
Better lang something than soon naething.
The race is not always to the swift.
Every rock strikes the feet of the poor.
You have a raven's knowledge.
Renounce a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak.
Listen to advice and accept correction, then in the end you will be wise.
The voices of the ancestors are the voices of the gods.
Round like a lime.
It is the woman who knows her husband.
Where the rain falls there is no hunger.
Flies can't fall in a tight-closed pot.
The dead with the dead, and the living with the living.
The pumpkin gives birth and the fence has the trouble.
A good rooster crows everywhere.
A rat stinks, but it has its own home.
Better no spoon than no soup.
A rich widow weeps with one eye and signals with the other.
One plus one makes eleven.
zzzzOne person enjoys a piece of hard cheese, a second a spun out prayer chant, and a third a door to the street.
A joyful evening may follow a sorrowful morning.
If you don't want to be cheated, ask the price at three shops.
He'd offer you an egg if you promised not to break the shell.
Throwing your cap at a bird is not the way to catch it.
To-morrow's remedy will not ward off the evil of to-day.
After pleasure comes pain.
When the furze is in bloom, my love's in tune.
An old fox understands the trap.
The tree of silence bears the fruit of peace.
Never marry for money. You can borrow it cheaper.
Long borrowed is not given.
The idle remarks of the rich are taken as maxims of wisdom by the poor.
Feed a dog to bark at you.
He is not wise who places a stones on his own roof.
Whether the pitcher strike the stone or the stone the pitcher, the pitcher suffers.
If the moon helps me I will scoff at the stars.
Pray once if you are going to fight, twice if you are going to sail, and thrice if you are going to get married.
The twig that falls in the water will never become a fish.
Time is a teacher.
It is no use hiding from a friend what is known to an enemy.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Old age is no protection against foolishness.
An angry word is like striking with a knife.
Man is his own mirror.
Soft words don't scotch the tongue.
You are more shifting than a potter's wheel.
To do nothing teacheth to do evil.
Eyes watch but cannot take.
The key that opens is also the key that locks.
Do good things quickly.
It is hard to please every one.
You can't make horn of a pig's tail.
Fidelity in a king, promise in men.
I have tane the sheaf frae the mare.
Better wit than wealth.
Self-praise stinks.
To roast fish on sky and to eat them.
A man surprised is half beaten.
He who lives with hope dies happy.
He that bears the cross, blesses himself first.
Doubt is the beginning not the end of wisdom.
It takes little effort to watch a man carry a load.
Eat of your own, and call yourself mine.
The superior doctor prevents sickness; The mediocre doctor attends to impending sickness; The inferior doctor treats actual sickness.
The nail that sticks out gets pounded.
When jackass back strong, dem overload ‘im hamper.
Pride is the last vice a good man gets clear of.
Until a child is one year old it is incapable of sin.
As soon as you question someone's integrity, it is a reflection of your own.
No matter how often a pitcher goes to the water it is broken in the end.
When in Rome do as the Romans do.
The Irish forgive their great men when they are safely buried.
Where there's smoke, there's toast.
Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her brain.
When a stepmother moves in, the father becomes a stepfather.
The flatterer makes you climb up a tree then takes the ladder away.
Old age devours your youth.
We are born to be our own, and not fed to it.
Do not abuse the hospitality of others.
The thief makes perhaps one mistake; those he stole from made a hundred.
Virtue, which parleys, is near a surrender.
Can't tell his ass from a hole in the ground.
Everyone's the blacksmith of their own fate.
Invalids live the longest.
Little is spent with difficulty, much with ease.
The union of means triumphs over the lion.
More blind than the cast-off skin of a serpent.
Don't put robbers to work in a bank.
The one who throws the stone forgets; the one who is hit remembers forever.
A word out of season may mar a whole lifetime.
Preventing someone from falling is better than helping him get up.
Precepts invite, but examples drag us to conclusions.
Anger is always more harmful than the insult that caused it.
He who speaks to your face is not a traitor.
Trust not a horse's heels.
Our passions are the winds that propel our vessel. Our reason is the pilot that steers her. Without winds the vessel would not move and without a pilot she would be lost.
To act sincerely with the insincere is dangerous.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse is lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
Who leans against a good tree, gets a good shade.
Only when the coffin is closed will we see how long lasting is the name.
A wise man changes his mind, a fool never will.
Let no man be the servant of another, who can be his own master.
As long as there is life, there is hope.
Different people have different personality.
If you still have money in the month of May, you'll have it the entire year.
The day will come when the cow will have use for her tail.
A hungry belly listens to no one.
In youth you're lustful.
He that eats the king's geese shall be choked with the feathers.
Need is a bad negotiator.
With patience you go beyond knowledge.
Thousands drink themselves to death before one dies of thirst.
Everyone talks about the weather, but nobody does anything about it.
Thieves hunt in couples, but a liar has no accomplice.
Patience is power; with time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
When I am dead the world can be an ocean or a dried up ditch.
When we are at our happiest, then it is best to leave and go home.
Everything is for sale, even friendship.
Truth and oil, always come to the surface.
A good name is a second inheritance.
Don't take another mouthful before you have swallowed what is in your mouth.
A crow likes her own chick the best.
Where there is no want of will, there will be no want of opportunity.
A muffled cat never caught a mouse.
Laws without punishment are like bells with no clackers.
Nobody can rest in his own shadow.
Beauty never boiled the pot and ugliness never thickened it.
Experience is the best teacher.
At that particular time a mad person gives you something take it immediately before he changes is mind.
Words are female, deeds are male.
By always taking out and never putting in, the bottom is soon reached.
A one joy scatter a hundred grieves.
One enemy can do more hurt than ten friends can do good.
You have cast away your own for that which you are not sure of.
What is greatly desired is not believed when it comes.
Honesty is the best policy.
The wolf is upset about what he left behind, and the shepherd is upset about what he took away.
If the mat is not in a man's hand, he sleeps standing.
Desire first, death afterwards.
Hunger is good kitchen.
Better a sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof.
To make the cart go you must grease the wheels.
Ill news travels fast.
Not the glittering weapon fights the fight, but rather the hero's heart.
Schnapps is schnapps and business is business.
For good work time is needed.
Who mistrusts everybody is the real enemy of the village.
To give counsel to a fool is like throwing water on a goose.
When yu go a jackass yard, yu noh fi chat 'bout big iyaz.
Christmas in mud, Easter in snow.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
Fat hens lay few eggs.
Swift gratitude is the sweetest.
There is no beard so well shaven but another barber will find something more to shave from it.
A boy's will is the will of the wind.
Shameful is not the one who doesn't know, but the one who doesn't ask.
A new tout in all old horn.
There is no god like one's stomach; we must sacrifice to it every day.
Courtesy never offended anybody.
When a man is crazy about a woman only she can cure him.
It is better to have no law than not enforcing it.
Where your will is ready your feet are light.
A market is three women and a goose.
A low-class man will just talk deeds are the hallmark of a gentleman.
Whoever rubs himself with garlic will not smell of cloves.
Every opportunity passed is lost.
When it's seen, there's no need for proof.
The king inherits a country - the people only hard work.
When husband and wife live in harmony, they can dry up the ocean without a bucket.
It takes two to begin a fight.
A trade not properly learned is an enemy.
The heart of the wise man lies quiet like limpid water.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
He gets green light.
Yoke not a camel and a cat together. Be free to ask ‘Why?'
Soft pace goes far.
Wait till it is night before saying it has been a fine day.
When a man loses his prestige, he does not regain it by going to where he is not known.
Little by little, the bird builds its nest.
War is a disaster for winner and loser alike.
You are ushered in according to your dress; shown out according to your brains.
Liked geir is half bought.
More lambs than sheep are slaughtered.
If they speak, they are wind; if they are silent, they are gourds.
The word that is heard perishes, but the letter that is written remains.
Bathe a dog, wash a dog, still it stinks of dog.
Open your eyes, not your mouth.
If the sky falls we shall catch larks.
A proverb never lies; it is only its meaning which deceives.
A good lawyer is a bad neighbor.
Nip sin in the bud.
It's my donkey and I can tie it where I please.
Never strike your wife, even with a flower.
We have not saddled and yet we are riding.
Arrogance is a kingdom without a crown.
It is good to have friends in all parts.
Because the cat was given no meat, he said it was Friday.
A village without elderly is unhappy.
Love is not found in the market.
Divorce is the sacrament of adultery.
Dress the monkey in silk and it is still a monkey.
I'll gar ye claw where its no yeuky.
By the thread we unwind the skein.
May you never forget what is worth remembering, or remember what is best forgotten.
A single tree makes no forest; one string makes no music.
The net of the sleeper catches fish.
The horse went into the river.
Add not fire to fire.
It must be a hard winter when one wolf devours another.
No leaf shudders outside the will of God.
It is not honour for an eagle to vanquish a dove.
An offer of friendship to a friend's foe is unbecoming an honorable man.
Idle hands are the devil's playthings.
He who treats himself has a fool for a patient.
The calves do not fear the horns of their mother.
While yearning for excess we lose the necessities.
One mother achieves more than a hundred teachers.
People in trouble remember Allah.
Knowledge is gained in many schools.
A good denial, the best point in law.
A poem ought to be well made at first, for there is many a one to spoil it afterwards.
If you endeavour, the fate will favour you.
You are a white mout fowl.
Rather a single grape for me than a brace of figs for thee.
"Yes" and "no" govern the world.
A sparrow in the hand is better than a cock on the roof.
If you follow god, you won't find anything.
Better cut the shoe than pinch the foot.
If a blind man says lets throw stones, be assured that he has stepped on one.
He danced bound hand and foot.
Empty the clear path to heaven, crowded the dark road to hell.
Two eyes see better than only one.
Trust in God, but tie your camel.
He who has had no experience of evil cannot know the worth of what is good.
What is the use of a big wide world when your shoes are too small?
Stand up, cent, let the dollar sit down.
Never stir the fire with a sword.
When the waggon is tilting everybody gives it a shove.
Not-speaking is the flower.
To be able to love other people you must be able to love yourself.
There are no cakes without work.
Affairs of the home should not be discussed in the public square.
A good retreat is better than a bad stand.
At rome do as rome does.
Sooner or later the truth comes to light.
Every flow has its ebb.
As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far place.
They give, to find a pretext for asking.
A wise man is a great wonder.
Matches may be made in heaven, but they are sold down here.
Lovers and lords want only to be alone together.
Better lose a supper than have a hundred physicians.
Take heed of reconciled enemies and of meat twice boiled.
Fair words are not enough to an empty belly.
Uncollected olives, left at random fill neither the saddle bag nor the little sack.
Remember to keep a calm mind in difficulties.
You seek wool from a donkey.
When you climb the mountain and reach the top, do not forget the branches shrubs that helped your footing.
Single in a field is not a warrior.
Alone a youth runs fast, with an elder slow, but together they go far.
Speak with a true heart, holding back your evil passions.
If you don't know the way, walk slowly.
Coffee is good in the morning and all day long. - (Finns are the most eager coffee drinkers of the world)
A single tree can not make a forest.
Hope for a miracle, but don't rely on it.
The winds may fell the massive oak, but bamboo, bent even to the ground, will spring upright after the passage of the storm.
Even the Buddha's face, only until the third.
It's a bad start on the week for the man who is hanged on a monday.
That which in the beautiful woman is grace, in the ugly woman turns to disgrace.
To be without learning, is to be without eyes.
Eat fire and your mouth burn; live on credit and your pride will burn.
All men are free of other men's goods.
What is good is not necessarily beautiful.
Even two friendly dogs cannot share a single bone.
There's always a bad egg in every crowd.
The eyes are the mirror of the soul.
To clean the beak by rubbing it on the ground.
A bone does not bring itself, it is people that bring it.
Laws are useless when men are pure, unenforceable when men are corrupt.
A starving man will eat with the wolf.
Like an Irish wolf she barks at her own shadow.
The heart is not a knee, it does not bend.
God doesn't give more beards than soap.
Mutual affection is when each gives his share.
Having beauty doesn't mean understanding the perseverance of marriage.
Effort will not counter faith.
One should be just as careful in choosing one's pleasures as in avoiding calamities.
Every beetle is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother.
Good deeds banish bad ones.
A fly cannot enter a closed mouth.
Even doubtful accusations leave a stain behind them.
Too clever is stupid.
Truth needs not many words.
Don't cry hurra! till your are over the hedge (till you are out of the wood).
War has no eyes.
If the peasant doesn't hear the thunder he won't make the sign of the cross.
In the young, silence is better than speech.
Young wood makes a hot fire.
You don't have to know much to read, but you do to cook.
Truth stands when everything else falls.
Wind and good luck are seldom lasting.
The cat well knows whose beard she licks.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
Choose an easy death for one who must be executed.
If you see him riding on a bamboo-cane, say to him, "Good health to your horse!"
He is young enough who has health, and he is rich enough who has no debts.
Of a dead leopard we keep the skin, of man his reputation.
Don't believe in foretellings but don't stay without them.
A melon and a woman are hard to know.
He who lies once is never believed again.
The surest way to remain poor is to be an honest man.
Go softly at bad bits of road.
One beggar at the door is enough.
A golden ring can tie a man as tight as any chain.
Where there is finery, there lies the snare.
Deed done is well begun.
The man who strikes first admits that his ideas have given out.
For those who believe, no proof is necessary. For those who don't believe, no proof is possible.
A bad job is not as wothless as a good game.
Talk of sporting, and buy game in the market.
You don't have to cut a tree down to get at the fruit.
In youth we learn, in old age we understand.
A good example is the best sermon.
Children are certain cares, but uncertain comforts.
To meet an old friend in a distant country is like the delight of rain after a long drought.
Better poor with honour than rich with shame.
Hurry, and you'll get only shithead kids.
A word and a stone once let go cannot be recalled.
A teacher stands in fear of teaching.
Tell not all you know; believe not all you hear; do not all you are able.
Do when ye may, or suffer ye the nay, in love 'tis the way.
If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault.
If ye like the nut, crack it.
Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet... (Rudyard Kipling)
The gem of the sky is the sun; the gem of the house is the child.
Step by step one goes far.
He is rich enough who owes nothing.
He who accepts the gift loses his liberty.
Better to be red-faced once than 100 times purple.
He would sink a ship freighted with crucifixes.
Not every sweet root gives birth to sweet grass.
A cat has nine lives, as the onion seven skins.
Sudden frightening occurrence knows no brave person.
The bird has no nest, but a branch to rest on.
You scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
A tongue that dives about like a shrimp. (about a malicious gossip/scandalmonger)
A good word extinguishes more than a pailful of water.
The world flatters the elephant and tramples on the ant.
You nebber see kicking' cow widout kickin'calf.
The herringman hates the fisherman.
Beauty draws more than oxen.
He who laughs at a cripple will not die without becoming himself.
To come out of one's house means learning.
Wrapped within rags might be gold.
A spider's cobweb isn't only its sleeping spring but also its food trap.
The nearer the minster the later to mass.
As soon as a man leaves his house he has seven enemies.
The knife that has been lent, never comes back alone.
The lazy one is pregnant in the sowing season.
If you send no one to the market, the market will send no one to you.
Everyone praises his own land.
A hundred years cannot repair a moment's loss of honour.
He who loiters hears ill spoken of himself.
Old age does not announce itself.
Old sins cast long shadows.
The coward sweats in water.
Things past cannot be recalled.
From word to deed is a great space.
Self is the man.
A cow gave birth to a fire; she wanted to lick it, but it burned; she wanted to leave it, but she could not because it was her own child.
Hell is full of good meanings, but heaven is full of good works.
Don't borrow from a baby-boomer, if you borrow, don't spend it.
If you don't have a hundred rubles, make sure you have a hundred friends.
One cannot drink and whistle at the same time.
A house built by the wayside is either too high or too low.
Men are bound by words, bulls' horns by ropes.
The lawyer will extend the frontiers of a fight.
As the dog said, ‘If I fall down for you and you fall down for me, it is playing.'
If you would get ahead, be a bridge.
To an optimist every weed is a flower; to a pessimist every flower is a weed.
The tongue has no bones, yet it breaks bones.
Heavy is an old man's fall.
You cannot cure a wound by striking it gently.
Never allow family to stand in the way of opportunity.
Every man to his taste, as the man sayed when he kiss'd his cou.
It is better to live for one day as a tiger than to live for a thousand years as a sheep.
Arriving and leaving, hoping and remembering, that's what life consists of.
Don't throw dirt into the well that gives you water.
Work makes free.
May the man be damned and never grow fat, Who wears two faces under one hat.
See and believe, and in order not to make a mistake, touch.
A bean-jam rice cake into the open mouth.
He can't see the beam in his own, but he's looking for an eyelash in someone else's.
Say only good things about the dead.
They had never an ill day, that had a good evening.
Be skeptical; long garments can also hide big feet.
The bird who has always possessed a beak, does not pick up for another.
Friendly words gain much and cost nothing.
An ounce of lying saves tons of explanations.
Cheap meat yields dilute soup.
You can buy 'em but they don't stay bought.
He who rides the mule shoes her.
For want of a nail the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; for want of a horse the rider was lost.
A son is a son till he gets him a wife, but a daughter's a daughter the rest of your life.
He who serves the public has a sorry master.
A dead body cannot urge over how it should be placed in the grave.
The world is a good teacher, but it charges a huge fee.
An idle woman is up to no good.
A thousand friends are too few; one enemy is one too many.
It costs something to be a Christian, but it costs more to be a sinner.
One devil does not scratch out another devil's eyes.
No one is as deaf as the man who will not listen.
If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in character.
Abundance is from activity.
Easier to rule a nation than a son.
If you mentioned the wolf you better prepare the stick.
A devotee's face, and a cat's claws.
Many women, many words; many geese, many turds.
Guests always have nice backs.
He that repeats a matter separates very friends.
I will get it because I can, one says with a reason.
You can't clap with one hand.
The first at the mill grinds first.
A man with a missing tooth does not eat ugiri with relish.
You reap what you sow.
Where there are experts there will be no lack ot learners.
Where the devil can't go himself, he sends an old woman.
Not able to take revenge on the donkey, take it out on the saddle.
Who trusts in God has built well.
Blood is the sweat of heroes.
Man alone is the measure of all things.
Luck is like having a rice dumpling fly into your mouth.
Go early to the garden and the mill.
A skade mans head is soon broke.
Old love will not be forgotten.
A hen that cackles much lays only a few eggs.
Who shouts at home will bark away from home.
If you are dancing with your rivals, don't close your eyes.
John has been to school to learn to be a fool.
The Roman conquered by delay.
A change is as good as a rest.
Lead for old iron.
Rising early makes the road short.
Bad news goes about in clogs, good news in stockinged feet.
Love, beauty and money are three things that can't be hidden.
One stroke at the paddle, two and three islands have passed.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Revenge is sweet.
The clog and amida are both from the same piece of wood.
A woman's stomach does not grow if she is not pregnant.
The best place in the world is on the back of a horse, and the best thing to do in time is to read a book.
Blood is thick than water.
Who has not done any evil act, his or her heart may be found right.
Rare is agreement between beauty and modesty.
Great cry and little wool, quoth the devil, when he sheared his hogs.
A youngster can ask further than an aged has been.
One who lies for you will also lie against you.
You lose some... and you win some... and some you don't even bother to play.
Reins and a whip make a good horse.
After meat, mustard.
Who eats without drinking, will never feel full.
Wake not a sleeping lion.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
Reperition is a mother of learning.
One who refused advice was later seen bleeding.
Even a straw becomes heavy, if you carry it far enough.
Poor iron won't make a sharp sword.
Keep the feast to the feast day.
Hours are Time's shafts, and one comes winged with death.
When it rains in the morning, take the plow and start sowing; when it rains between Vespers and nightfall, put on your boots.
Because men do not like the cold, Heaven does not cause winter to cease.
When prices drop, buy.
If yu cyaa tek di heat, get out a di kitchen.
One secret of success is to know how to deny yourself and other people.
Always something new, seldom something good.
After a battle, everyone is a general.
Our generosity should never exceed our abilities.
When the buttocks foul the air it's the head that gets knocked.
They blow one stone.
A bad cook also has his/her share of the bad food.
If all else fails, sleep with your mother.
If ignorance is bliss, why aren't more people happy?
Praise the young and they will blossom.
If a centipede loses a leg, it can still walk.
Better a live beggar than a dead king.
Even though his stomach is satiated, his eye will not be satiated.
The man who can't dance thinks the band is no good.
The land enriches not people who clear it, but people who come.
Every one draws the water to his own mill.
He that has shipped the devil must make the best of him.
When you meet a man judge him by his clothes, when you leave a man judge him by his heart.
Folly hath eagle's wings, but the eyes of an owl.
A cutting word is worse than a bowstring, a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not.
No house without its cross.
Afraid of his own shadow.
every man look to the bread upon which he must depend.
People who do not break things first will never learn to create anything.
A wound never heals so well that the scar cannot be seen.
I'm talking to the door, but I want the walls to hear me.
Because of lack of talent in dancing, the floor is blamed.
The joy of a poor man does not last long.
All things of this world are nothing, unless they have reference to the next.
Ask and you shall receive.
Tears are at times as eloquent as words.
Money is money's brother.
His door already has the hard part of the journey behind him.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
Who so deaf as he that will not hear.
Strike a match above the sea of opinions and the fish all swim away.
We shall never be younger.
Woman was born three days earlier than the devil.
He left for Foldvar to sell boards.
Lock your door and keep your neighbours honest.
The mouse does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful.
Let him that itches scratch himself.
It is easy to bake where there is plenty of meal.
He that marries late marries ill.
He, who gives much, will soon start begging.
A galled horse will not endure the comb.
When the steersmen are many the ship will sink.
To command one must learn to obey.
When a man is coming toward you, you need not say, "Come here."
In trying to straighten the horns you kill the ox.
When the moon is shining the cripple becomes hungry for a walk.
Eat bread that's light, and cheese by weight.
Each one to his owner.
A horse which is tamed at forty is only good for resurrection day.
When you have a lot to do, start with a meal.
A pet child has many names.
The owl thinks her children the fairest.
Asses that bray most eat least.
If you are up to your knees in pleasure, then you are up to your waist in grief.
Marry your children with their peers so you won't regret it someday.
If your friend is honey, don't lick it all.
There are many kinds of fruit that grow on the tree of life, but none so sweet as friendship.
It's an ill army when the devil carries the colours.
Beaten with his own rod.
You notice what I drink, and not the thirst I feel.
You should lie down with the lamb and rise with the lark.
Hurrying and worrying are not the same as strength.
Because of a period, Martin lost his post.
A single slip may cause lasting injury.
The saint who works no miracles isn't glorified.
Good words and no deeds are rushes and reeds.
Hospitality: the virtue which induces us to feed and lodge certain persons who are not in need of food and lodging. (Ambrose Bierce)
Almost is not eaten.
Even though words have no wings, they can still fly a thousand miles. Even if you encounter a stone bridge, tap it first before crossing. Through old things, we learn new things.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
Plantain ripe, can't green again.
Don't expect from others what you can't promise them yourself.
A sick person is a prisoner.
One who walks in another's tracks leaves no footprints.
You can't stop a pig from wallowing in the mud.
An empty belly has no ears.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
He who eats another mans food will have his own food eaten by others.
The soldier who retreats 50 paces jeers at the one who retreats 100 paces.
Don't cut your cactus in a neighbor's garden.
Older but instead of getting wiser, one gets naughtier.
More people are slain by supper than by the sword.
Be slow to reach for your purse and quick to tip your hat.
Morning makes the day.
Perfect friendship cannot be without equality.
Fear the man of one book. (Strauss 1994, p. 851)
He who lies on the ground must expect to be trodden on.
Two rams cannot drink from the same bucket at the same time; they will lock horns.
Don't sell the fur until the bear has been shot.
Someone else's hands are light, but not big.
Love is worn like a wreath through the summers and the winters.
One finger can't ketch louse.
Nature breaks through the eyes of the cat.
Talking is silver, silence is golden.
Let him who is well off hold his tongue.
The old ox plows a straight furrow.
To the raven her own chick is white.
Be silent, or say something better than silence.
The greatest strength is gentleness.
Some things are better praised by silence than by remark.
A distant fire does not burn.
Priestly knaves sweat hard at their meat, but never at work get into a heat.
You can't build a barrel round a bung hole.
The ears do not lose their interest.
Those who do not do politics will be done in by politics.
On painting and fighting look adreich.
Limerick was, Dublin is, and Cork shall be the finest city of the three.
You make a new arrow by comparing it to an old one.
If I am seen, I am joking; if I am not seen, I steal.
Four thousand throats may be cut in one night by a running man.
If you build according to every man's advice, you will have a crooked house.
The big fish eat the little.
Mules help to scratch each other.
A rule isn't unfair if it applies to everyone.
On the day a monkey dies, all the trees are slippery.
He who chooses takes the worst.
Keeping from falling is better than helping up.
It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house.
He that is at ease seeks dainties.
Like well like bucket.
Don't undo your bootlaces until you have seen the river.
I would rather see smoke from my own chimney than the fire on another's hearth.
He who would catch a rogue must watch behind the door.
The wisdom of the elderly is like the sun, it illuminates the village and the great river.
Don't trudge mud into the house of love.
When you buy, use your eyes and your mind, not your ears.
The "obereku" bird should be eaten hot.
The cause at an end, the effect is removed.
When the lion goes astray, all the other animals are king of the jungle.
Curious Varvara's nose was torn off.
A good sword is the one left in its scabbard.
One's own spurs and another's horse make the miles short.
When the shooting starts climb on your camel and head for the mountaintops.
Friendship reminds us of fathers, love of mothers.
By getting angry, you show you are wrong.
Black will take no other hue.
Twa wits is better nor ane.
The grave is already dug and man still continues to hope.
Cannot dance but blame the floor as uneven.
Penny is money, and when there's two it chinks.
The memory of you sings in my blood.
There is no woman who sleeps so deeply that the sound of a guitar won't bring her to the window.
Man is the head and woman is the crown upon it.
No one betrays himself by silence.
Don't praise tomorrow because tomorrow praises itself.
The dog that digs deepest finds the bones.
What is not urgent must be done quickly in order to take care of the urgent things calmly.
Warm food, warm friendships.
A rope which is pulled for a long time, breaks.
He who would be a redeemer ends up crucified.
Sickness comes on horseback, but goes away on foot.
Fortune does not stand waiting at any one's door.
You can tell who the good seamen are during a storm.
Be not deceived with the first appearance of things, for show is not substance.
People with wax heads shouldn't walk in the sun.
Men know not all their faults, oxen all their strength.
While the blanket is short, learn to bend.
More sad than al khansaa' for sakhr.
Learn to obey before you command.
'tis easier to hurt than heal.
The heart has arguments with which the understanding is unacquainted.
Those who study will know, those who save will have.
If the strong man has nothing else, he can at least command others.
An uneducated person is like an unpolished mirror.
It is easy to cut thongs form other men's leather.
Seek not the luxuries of life lest you reap sorrow.
If the lizard were good to eat, it would not be so common.
Need teaches things unlawful.
One meets his destiny often in the road he takes to avoid it.
True religion is in one's heart.
Success leads to insolence.
A younger brother should honour an older brother. He should treat him with human dignity.
What reaches the mother's heart will only reach the father's knees.
Don't spare expense on the wheat and the flax.
Gold attracts a crowd.
Until a crab finds itself in a very hot pot of soup, it will never understand that water can be both cold and hot.
If I have lost the ring I still have the fingers.
Hold your dog in readiness before you start the hare.
Fish begin to stink at the head.
Before you buy shoes, measure your feet.
USSR – an example for all.
Sometimes an egg is given for an ox.
Charity does not lessen you, going to church does not hinder you.
Only birds with long beaks can drink from deep pots.
I don't want the cheese, I just want to get out of the trap.
Of a compliment only a third is meant.
I'm more beautiful than you compared to a pig.
The stars make no noise.
In the hour of adversity be not without hope.
The chickens have come home to roost. You're suffering the consequences now.
The ass and the driver never think alike.
A blind man is not judge of colours.
A drop hollows out the stone not by force, but falling many times. (original latin proverb).
Lawyers and painters can soon change white to black.
There's a fool born every minute – and every one of them lives.
Wine in moderation is a stomach tonic.
There often lies falsehood beneath a pretty skin.
One with a plow ? seven with a spoon.
Klingons are a proud race, and we intend to go on being proud.
If you see behind your ear.
A man has the same last name as his brother.
He who wants to be happy must stay at home.
The nice apples are always eaten by nasty pigs.
Coffee and love are best when they are hot.
Seek fish on a tree.
Bury me on my feet, I have spent my entire life on my knees.
There is no wheat without chaff.
Your friendship is your needs answered.
Spit not in the well, you may have to drink its water.
Eating what you plant is better than begging for leftovers.
Those who sleep with children wake up with shit on their asses.
A handfull of patience is worth a bushel of brains.
After dinner, mustard.
Every rose has a thorn as its friend.
When a fox is in his hole, the smoke fetches him out.
A Single hand cannot wash itself even in the Danube river.
Our pillow should be our counsellor.
A good doctor treats both the patient and the disease.
My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
One wrong submitted to, another follows.
Beauty does not season soup.
Today butterflies, tomorrow wasps.
The eggs of the brood need to be an odd number.
Who guarded in the war,
Where the hands move, there let the eyes follow.
One should rise to a person who sees you sitting.
Forest gives what forest has.
With patience and time the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown.
Don't quote your proverb 'til you bring your ship to port.
It takes two to start an altercation, but only one to end it.
The bankrupt merchant is half rich.
He who keeps fleeing, flees from his own past.
A man may learn wit every day.
If you urge the donkey on, you'll arrive late, if you let the donkey amble, you'll arrive early.
Evening promises are like butter: morning comes, and it's all melted.
Put your hand quickly to your hat, and slowly in your purse, and you will take no harm.
The treason is loved, the traitor hated.
What is nearest the heart is nearest the mouth.
A thief is always under suspicion.
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
The dog I bought, bit me; the fire I kindled, burned me.
Eggs can't teach the hen.
Don't buy the salt if you haven't licked it yet.
Eat and drink with your friends but do not trade with them.
To kick with sore toe only hurts foot.
When you die, your trumpeter will be buried.
Believe not that the stream is shallow because its surface is smooth.
Of what use is the veil if you are going to dance.
Feel like gumbeh drum widout a goat-skin.
When your neighbor burns down, your hurt is near.
The dishonest man stole silver; the honest man will earn his pay.
The soup makes the soldier.
All love justice in the houses of others to no one is it pleasing in his own house.
There is hope from the sea but there is no hope from the land.
Come live with me and you'll know me.
I a lazy lout, you a lazy lout, marry me, Antonia.
A turn of the key is better than the conscience of a friar.
The devil does not always wear boots - he sometimes comes barefoot.
Everything you buy at the price.
A work ill done must be twice done.
If the load is too heavy for someone to carry, one would be better off to give the load to the ground to carry.
Our crosses are hewn from different trees.
Who has no courage must have legs.
Life cannot be trusted; death can come at any moment.
A coward always hides behind someone else after he has thrown a stone.
Take no more on you than you're able to bear.
Generosity has its disadvantages.
One door never shuts but another opens.
Out of the frying pan into the fire.
Call me not olive before you see me gathered.
The beast once dead, the venom is dead.
A thorn that pierces the toe should be burned.
Fear guards the vineyard.
Invite a peasant to your table and he'll put his feet on it.
Be not discouraged by adverse circumstances.
You are not born a leader, you become one.
If you come near the river, you will hear the crab cough.
A small pack becomes a small peddler.
When you go to bed with a clear head, you will not get up with a headache.
The Frenchman sings well, when his throat is moistened.
Without eating and drinking the hero is no good.
Into the house where joy lives, happiness will gladly come.
With great men one must allow five to be an even number.
Assurance is two-thirds success.
A cat that has been scalded is afraid of cold water.
Temptation wrings integrity even as the thumbscrew twists a man's fingers.
A good fire gives the cook latitude.
A kingdom's strength is in mutual honor.
We are no more than candles burning in the wind.
One joy can drive away a hundred sorrows.
An alive person needs life.
A friend in the market is better than money in the chest.
He who has many irons in the fire, will let some of them burn.
The tale is marred in the telling.
Empty stomachs have no ears.
Sweep before your own door first before you sweep before the doorsteps of your neighbors.
The beadle's cow may graze in the churchyard.
Woods have ears and fields have eyes.
Nobody has ever bet enough on a winning horse.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
A woman and a melon are hard to choose.
Music induces more madness in many than wine.
Even the devil cannot escape a woman.
I sell it for what I bought it.
The person who trusts is happy; the person who doubts is wise.
They're a' ae sow's pick.
Fire is more bearable than disgrace.
They use a wedge to knock out a wedge.
Nothing wipes your tears away but your own hand.
Not speech, but facts, convince.
Our bread today is better than a hundred in the air.
The wolf spared the mare, left a tail and mane.
Like blood, like means, and like age, make the happiest marriage.
The mouth that has saliva does not lack words.
To be a public man is slavery.
Far fetched and dear bought is meat for ladies.
If the father is a frog, the son will be a frog.
Big fleas have little fleas upon their backs to bite them, and little fleas have lesser fleas, and so ad infinitum.
The fathers ate the cranberries and the children are left with the aftertaste.
You know a bird from the way he flies.
In age, talk; in childhood, tears.
Necessity has no law.
One idiot throws a stone in the well, and it takes a hundred wise men to (try to) get it out.
He who is first to receive something forgets when his friend will receive their share.
If you speak the word it shall own you, and if you don't you shall own it.
Don't look for lice if you're not itching.
Absence is a shrew.
Summary justice is a summary offense.
The best goods are cheapest in the end. (Kelly, 1859 p, 95)
The monkey is a good boxer, but his hands are short.
Like wood, like arrow.
Do not be born good or handsome, but be born lucky.
Who has patience may get fat thrushes at a farthing apiece.
A merchants happiness hangs upon chance, winds, and waves.
Nobody cares about other people's poverty.
When gnats swarm in January, the peasant becomes a beggar.
When three people say you are drunk, go to sleep.
With houses and gold, men are rarely bold.
It is not the size of the dog in the fight that counts, but the fight in the dog that wins.
A lover's anger is short-lived.
He sleeps as dogs do when wives bake cakes.
If you are not going to bite, don't show your teeth.
If your head is made of butter, don't be a baker.
He who borrows sells his freedom.
Once a drunkard always a drunkard.
Get thy spindle and thy distaff ready, and God will send flax.
What is called into a forest is the same what is echoed from the forest.
To every answer you can find a new question.
Every woman needs two men - one to be married to and the other to compare.
He makes a lion of a mouse.
He who has lost his freedom has nothing else to lose.
You know a man by the sweat of his brow and the strength of his word.
Every honest miller has a thumb of gold.
When elephant steps on a trap, no more trap.
One is never soiled but by filth.
No money is taken for just looking at somebody or something.
The crook in the old stick is ill to take out.
To do things wrong with best intentions is better than acting to the letter of the law with evil intentions.
If you are desperate, you must not be choosy.
Two-thirds of help is to give courage.
I can only get better if I have good friends.
May the sun set on where my love dwells.
A town takes your money though your pockets be empty.
In the game no one is brother to others.
If I dealt in candles, the sun wouldn't set; if I dealt in shrouds, people would stop dying.
The little devil is hiding in me.
Women are necessary evils.
Drinking a little too much is drinking a great deal too much.
Praise in own mouth is insult.
Who eats his cock alone must saddle his horse alone.
Measure, is Treasure.
Conquerors are kings; the beaten are bandits.
A smokey cabin, a handful of spuds and a flea-filled bed.
When con men meet a legitimately honest man, they are so bewildered that they consider him a greater con man than themselves.
A well-worn coir-rope is better than a new rope made from raffia.
He loses his thanks who promises and delays.
The hour is passing.
The dead open the eyes of the living.
He is blind enough who cannot see through a sieve.
That is not in the looking-glass which is seen in the looking-glass.
Justifying a fault doubles it.
Work is our business; it's success is God's.
Hope is an egg, of which one man gets the yolk, another the white, and a third the shell.
Rich folk have many friends.
People with much ado usually don't know shallow.
Wherever God buys a church, the devil builds a chapel alongside.
Who hears but one bell hears but one sound.
If something that was going to chop off your head only knocked off your cap, you should be grateful.
Things that are stolen will really never make you rich.
When the monkey can't reach the ripe banana with his hand, he says it is not sweet.
You can't make something beautiful with force.
From the crown of our head to the sole of our foot.
Life is a shadow and a mist; it passes quickly by, and is no more.
If you see vessels afloat, remember that they have had to be built.
Better be safe than sorry.
The rambling pole-cat leaves its house when there is banquet.
Take an oath only for the hand youslept on.
Not a few proverbs are dear children of experience.
Who has a priest at home, has plenty of food.
Silence is often the best answer.
Your companion's body is beside.
Froth is no beer.
He thinks that he himself is the very stone that was hurled at the castle.
I would rather have a dog my friend than enemy.
Sickness tells us what we are.
Gratitude is the heart's memory.
Interest on debts grow without rain.
He who drinks no more still likes to see the beer pulled.
Who knows most says least.
A good lawyer is a bad neighbour.
A little string will tie a title bird.
Shall the gosling teach the goose to swim?
A strawberry blossom will not sweeten dry bread.
Temporary isolation is good for guidance. It is good for the mind to remove itself momentarily from something.
He is not fit to command others that cannot command himself.
Everyone has his manner of killing fleas.
Who sits on your shoulders will try to climb on your head.
It is not as bad to believe a lie as to tell one.
The cat may look at the queen.
While the dogs yelp, the hare flies to the wood.
It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate.
There are simple remedies for sausages that are too long.
The man who was dividing Ireland didn't leave himself last.
Even things that are far apart can meet as one.
He who laughs last laughs best.
Nature comes before teaching.
In every false step there is something good.
Dead news, like dead love, has no phoenix in its ashes.
Be humble in making demands even when making your demands.
A picture says more than a thousand words.
Who lets another sit on his shoulder, will soon have him on his head.
O, God, if there be a God, save my soul if I have a soulǃ (A soldier before the battle of Blenheim in 1704)
Miss summer and flies, the poor man would have friends.
Where there is abundance, there is poverty.
Wash your hands in the flowing Ganges.
It is not the beard that makes the philosopher.
To miss the forest because of the trees.
Still water undermines the bank.
Vices are learned without a master.
A great book is a great evil.
Bad news is always true.
When the moon is full, it begins to wane.
A friend works in the light of the sun, an enemy in the dark.
The moon is the sun of young men.
Add oil to a fire.
Fair words won't feed a cat.
Ask a lot, but take what is offered.
One cannot quarrel without an opponent.
Sugarcane is always sweet people only sometimes so.
You've made your bed, so you can lie in it.
If you make love in the shade you get cold.
It's better to have ringworm than a farm and vineyard.
Using a cannon to shoot a mosquito.
An arrow once shot is hard to get back.
There isn't a sword that would cut off a golden hand.
The tree will not sway without a trace of wind.
All rising to great place is by a winding stair. (Francis Bacon)
When jackass smell corn, ‘im gallop.
You will never know a man till you do business with him.
Choose bread with eyes, cheese without eyes and wine that makes your eyes pop.
Everyone knows where his own shoe pinches him.
A poor beauty finds more lovers than husbands.
Be swift to hear, slow to speak.
The mouse in the wall may look at a cat, but he is wise not to squeak about it.
A man without ambition is like a woman without looks.
He ate one fig and he thought the autumn had come.
The medicine that hurts the most is generally the best healer.
The thief who isn't caught is an honest salesman.
The richer they are, the needier they are.
Never slap a man who's chewing tobacco.
Youth and white paper take any impression.
As the old Cock craws, the young Cock lears.
One sesame seed won't make oil.
If the hand gives, but the heart does not, nothing happens.
Laughing for no reason is rude.
God knows why he has made the wings of some birds shorter.
What Manchester says today, the rest of England says tomorrow.
Absent people do not inherit.
He falls into the pit who leads another into it.
Do not start if afraid, once begun do not be afraid.
In winter the milk goes to the cow's horns.
Open hand makes open hand.
Grass does not grow on the nose of a thief.
The one who has a fever thinks that honey is bitter.
He got it from nature as the pig got the rooting in the ground.
To withhold truth is to bury gold.
Frequent washing makes not the crow whiter.
Riches run after the rich, and poverty runs after the poor.
Only he that has traveled the road knows where the holes are deep.
A pain that pricks the conscience is more effective than a lot of whiplashes.
The fault of another is a good teacher.
A crisis is an opportunity riding the dangerous wind.
If I see you often, I can't call you a visitor.
Absence cools moderate passions but inflames violent ones.
There is small revenge in words, but words may be greatly revenged.
Eat well, drink in moderation, and sleep sound, in these three good health abound.
God exercises vengeance in silence.
Knowing where Abraham gets the mustard.
Fire and gunpowder are not bedfellows.
Life is like the flame of a lamp; it needs a little oil now and then.
With God all things are possible.
The shame you cannot lift away, you had better let lie.
Once a friend, always a friend.
The person who knows himself and his opponent will be invincible. Carve a peg only after you have observed the hole.
An ember burns where it falls.
The person who recognizes his major mistakes is on the road to wisdom.
Danger is next neighbor to security.
A family is like a thick forest, often from outside its dense, when your inside each tree has its own position.
When the journey is finished to lay up provisions for the journey.
He who goes around with his body upright, later on will go crawling.
No church without a sermon.
What one is accustomed to in youth, one does in old age.
When in doubt, win the trick.
Shut up Topias the doctor knows better that you ain't dead.
He has a coat-affair.
On entering a country, ask what is forbidden, on entering a village, ask what are the customs, on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned.
Put your trust in God, and keep your powder dry.
Tender surgeons make foul wounds.
Unhappiness can be a bridge to happiness.
At the king's court every one for himself.
There are more ways of killing a cat than choking it with cream.
There is no mother like your own mother.
A man know's no more to any purpose than he practises.
A small house can lodge a hundred friends.
Never judge from appearances.
He who does not admit defeat is not a sportsman.
If you what the hyena to eat a person then tie on him goats ears.
He who must die, must die in the dark, even though he sells candles.
Come hell or high water.
A pound of care will not pay an ounce of debt.
Drive your business or it will drive you.
To neglect one's ancestors would bring ill-fortune and failure in life.
Hope is the dream of a soul awake.
When ten thousand soldiers lie rotting, the general's reputation is enhanced.
A benevolent man should allow a few faults in himself to keeps his friends in countenance.
The talker will lead the dog to the meat market.
Throw no stones at a sleeping dog.
He that has no wife, beats her oft.
A good bargain is a pick-purse.
The longer you live the more you suffer.
Better to eat bread in peace, then cake amid turmoil.
A little makes a debtor and much an enemy.
Strife is better than loneliness.
You can kill a man's identity on earth but you cannot kill is spirit.
Like the peanut, who forgets its shell.
Before you begin to trade in blame look in the mirror.
What a sad bench it is that has never been sat upon by a grey beard.
Three glasses of wine end a hundred quarrels.
I can find good in my boss but he is at loggerheads with me.
It is easier to dam a river than to stop the flow of gossip.
Better a wise foe than a foolish friend.
The first decision of a woman is the most intelligent and the last decision most dangerous.
Everything ends in weeping.
He who speaks ill of himself is praised by no one.
Don't hang yer basket higher than you can reach 'em.
Politeness wins the confidence of princes.
When the rain fell at puuohaloa where were you.
Nurture and good manners makes man.
Hands that give also receive.
Once does not mean frequently, and twice does not mean constantly.
A borrowed horse and your own spurs make short miles.
A poor man's table is soon spread.
Money is the measure of all things.
He gangs early to steal, that cannot say Na.
Wearing a mended dress is better than being naked.
For the very best, drink milk from the goat, ricotta from the sheep and cheese from the cow.
No flies get into a shut mouth.
He that is his own lawyer has a fool for a client.
The shadow for the substance.
Never kill the cat that cries.
Many are the eyes of the person whose spouse commits adultery.
Every man has his own way of eating yogurt.
Where there's no jealousy, there's no love.
'Tis a hard winter when one wolf eats another.
It's tough to find fool's; ten in every other house.
Don't measure others with your hand.
The dog's bark is not might but fright.
An empty barrel makes the greatest sound.
Anger hears no counsel.
It has become a proverb.
The world would not make a racehorse of a donkey.
Musicians seldom drive carriages.
Two is company, but three is none.
Fruit ripens not well in the shade.
The repeated stroke will fell the oak.
Of the great and of the dead either speak will or say nothing.
Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him.
The fly had life even before the dog had its wounds.
Drop by drop, it will make a pond.
It is easy to set a cask a rolling.
There are two telling to every story.
No lock will hold against the power of gold.
A blind man can see his mouth.
A double jointed arm follows the leg action.
An unasked excuse infers transgression.
The village one can see requires no guide.
Your close neighbor is better than your faraway brother.
Before you find God, you will be eaten by saints.
The sooner, the better.
Protect the flame of your candle and it will light more.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Better to lose the wool than the sheep.
Who the daughter would win, with mamma must begin.
He that lives most dies most.
Keep your feet on the ground and you'll lessen the pain.
The pope and a peasant know more between them than the pope alone.
Every once in a while, declare peace. It confuses the hell out of your enemies.
Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.
The walking-stick reaches many lands, the word many more.
The silver is become dross.
The rich mans wealth tires the poor man's jaw.
Stones decay; words last.
All roads do not lead to Rome.
Old horse doesn't learn how to walk.
Outside noisy, inside empty.
Only men laugh, only men weep, only men dance.
The tree must be bent while it is young.
The frog's pee adds to the river.
Watch your step when you walk: you may find nothing but you will not stumble.
It is better to exist unknown to the law.
Kitten's are a child's instrument for happiness.
He is too idle to fetch his breath.
Money tempts women, women tempt men.
Why kill time when one can employ it?.
Great events may stem from words of no importance.
If you find the river flooded, wait.
The knife of the family does not cut.
A wise head keeps a shut mouth.
Take a friend for what he does, a wife for what she has, and goods for what they are worth.
A boat that is not tied up will drift along with the stream.
Judges should have two ears, both alike.
Little by little, one catches the monkey in the jungle.
An ounce of mother-wit, is worth a pound of clergie.
The cross on his breast, and the devil in his heart.
The sandal tree perfumes the axe that fells it.
An old monkey will not stick his hand into a jar.
Better ten people hurt than one dead.
Fools never get grey hair.
He earns a farthing and has a penn'orth of thirst.
He who would gather honey must brave the sting of bees.
It is a bad plowman that quarrels with his ox.
God is poor's shelter and money of the rich.
When the blind one carries the lame one, both of them gets ahead.
With many captains, the ship does not sail properly.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
Rima came back to her old habits.
Many things are lost for want of asking.
O! my sister that depend on men; you are believing in water in a sieve.
Hearing he hears not. He is deaf to entreaty.
The one who is shy will never have a son.
A man with good judgment does not make the goat his gardener.
Bad penny always turns up.
Bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
Times passes like the wind.
The sheep drinks but it's the goat that gets drunk.
When you chop off a snake's head all you are left with is a piece of rope.
Fallen blossom doesn't return to the branch.
He who grasps too much lets much fall.
A bad wife is one hundred years of bad harvest.
It's not that the well is too deep, but rather the rope is too short.
In the mirror everybody sees his best friend.
Do not hesitate or you will be left in between doing something, having something and being nothing.
The go-between wears out a thousand sandals.
If you are a peg, endure the knocking; if you are a mallet, strike.
Short lived pleasure is the parent of pain.
If you are looking for bad luck, you will soon find it.
There is never a cry of "Wolf!" but the wolf is in the district.
Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs.
Every country is a fatherland.
Laugh, if you are wise.
In sunshine the dust is seen.
Society is like a pot it can't carry water when its broken.
I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years.
The rat knows full well that, if the cat is old and feeble, its claws are not.
If the blind lead the blind, both fall into the ditch.
What [you] plant, [you] will harvest.
When wood is chopped, woodchips will fly.
Listening well is as powerful as talking well, and is also as essential to true conversation.
With so many roosters crowing, the sun never comes up.
There's always a deep breath before a plunge.
There is no death, only a change of worlds.
He looks for his ass and sits on its back.
He who does not whip the child does not mend the youth.
Where there is little bread, cut first.
When brains are needed, brawn won't help.Yiddish Proverbs
Cabbage twice cooked is death.
He who has to live in Elam -- his life is not good.
It is the hunter who always beats the lions, because it is the hunter who always tells the stories.
He who lost his faith, has nothing more to lose.
You cannot weld cake-dough to cast iron, nor a girl to an old man.
Revenge converts a little right into a great wrong.
It is good to buy when another wants to sell.
Providence our herald, no barrier can oppose us.
A pregnant woman cannot claim to be a virgin.
He who loves drives a nail into his heart.
Sun is for cucumbers, rain for rice.
Time is anger's medicine.
The city that negotiates is half conquered.
The last stole the sack.
A foreign language is more easily learned in the kitchen than at school.
Where your mother is born, you can't call anyone a child.
He who is not friendly towards a good guest will never have one.
We learn little from victory, but a great deal from defeat.
Common sense is essential.
Don't wade into a river without knowing a ford.
Women do not drink liquor, but it disappears when they are present.
Do not sigh, for your enemy will hear and rejoice.
Where God has his church the Devil will have his chapel.
The higher a monkey climbs, the more he shows his behind.
Moral people sleep well at night, but the immoral seem to get pleasure from the waking hours much more.
The head and feet keep warm; the rest will take no harm.
If you want something done and done well, do it yourself.
'tis money that begets money.
To be red-haired is better than to be without a head.
A secret agreement enabled people to kill watatua.
Love and attention make all things grow.
He who boasts of his ancestry unduly will bring plenty of trouble upon himself.
Look to your enemy for a chance to succeed.
Even the candle seller dies in the dark.
Not a long day, but a good heart, rids work.
Faith is that quality which enables us to believe what we know to be at least far out.
A dog is never offended at being pelted with bones.
A hungry wolf is stronger than a satisfied dog.
It is easier to cover our feet with sandals than to cover the earth with carpets.
Reticence builds a fortress in the mind.
You cannot cross a river without getting wet.
The shots overgoes the old swine.
If the devil is going to take me,” said the courtesan, "let it be in a coach.
However lean the meat may be, it goes well upon bread.
Wha costs nutting gib good weight.
Gnawing on bones is for dogs having teeth.
What affects the nose must also affect the eyes that must weep for it.
Not everything is a mermaid that dives into the water.
A hundred years of fretting will not pay a halfpenny of debt.
Where friends, there riches.
E'ening grey and a morning red, put on your hat or ye'll weet your head; e'ening red an' a morning grey is a taiken o' a bonny day.
Nature will come through the claws, and the hound will follow the hare.
Money is a Cure.
The best payment is on the peck bottom.
More than one mother can make tasty soup.
Perseverance performs greater works than strength.
Fish, to taste right, must swim 3 times -- in water, in butter and in wine.
We keep an eye on the scorpion and the serpent, but we do not watch out for the millipede.
The father gave his son a vineyard, the son didn't give the father even a grape.
Grain by grain, and the hen fills her belly.
The start of weeping is always hard.
That which the wise man does first, the fool does last.
The farmer is one but those who eat fruits of his labour are many.
He that laughs when he is alone will make sport in company.
A cheerful wife is the spice of life.
You can't claim heaven as your own if you are just going to sit under it.
The fox uses his tale as a witness.
It is better to be lied about than to lie.
Rejoice in little, shun what is extreme; the ship rides safest in a little stream.
Don't act as if you have something until you really do.
The cat is friendly, but scratches.
Man and wife are one flesh.
Poverty is slavery.
Can I pull down the sun with a forked stick, or prevent it from running its course?
Horace, Of the Art of Poetry, Wentworth Dillon's trans, line 212. (19 BC)
A deaf husband and a blind wife will always make a happy couple.
Innocence plays in the backyard of ignorance.
Kind words go a long way.
To have been silent never does harm, but to have spoken does.
Only death is certain.
It is more fun doing evil than putting it right.
Merit and glory never adorn a nightcap.
A silk dress doesn't mean clean undergarments.
A butterfly thinks itself a bird because it can fly.
Strong is the vinegar of sweet wine.
Two lightning flashes cannot come from one cloud.
The first thing that God created was his own beard.
Lovers' quarrels increase love.
Marriage is like a besieged castle; those who are on the outside wish to get in; and those who are on the inside wish to get out.
Happiness is a form of courage.
Sit atop the mountain and watch the tigers fight.
Fall sick, and you will see who is your friend and who not.
Bad people don't sing.
As the lion said, ‘I will kill your lambs and you will remember my presence.'
A fly before his own eye is bigger than an elephant in the next field.
A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear.
One man can burn water, whereas another cannot even burn oil.
A woman without teeth shall be left to the lions.
He who marries prudence is the brother-in-law of peace.
Small sorrows speak; great ones are silent.
One rain does not make a crop.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap. If you want happiness for a day -- go fishing. If you want happiness for a month -- get married. If you want happiness for a year -- inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime -- help someone else.
If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get sick.
No matter how tall a camel is, it will never get taller than than the hair on its back.
The piece of cloth that is in another's bag does not patch your garmet.
In the village without dogs the farmers walk without sticks.
If you're Heelant you're next door to the Fifer.
An ass is beautiful in the eyes of an ass; a sow in those of a sow; and every race is attractive to itself.
Only the nightingale understands the rose.
A particle of goat dung cannot be eaten by a large gourd.
You don't put a wooden pot on the fire twice.
We dare defend our rights. [Audemus iura nostra defendere.].
We are usually the best men when in the worst health.
To keep their ain hole clean, the minister's wife should.
No one else can represent your conscience.
He that owes the Cow goes nearest her tail.
Chiaramonte, a mountain of gold, every woman is a treasure.
Some people are born hammers, others anvils.
One shower doesn't make a flood.
The one who persists in asking question he learn the death of his mother.
Four things put a man beside himself--women, tobacco, cards, and wine.
The unbidden guest is ever a pest.
Many look with one eye at what they give, but with seven at what they receive.
He that would have the fruit must climb the tree.
Art is the right hand of nature.
Each lama has his own teaching.
Auld wives and bairns mak fools o' physicians.
At work and knowledge is our salvation.
To love a cow, tie it up; To love a child, hit him/her.
Words that come from the heart stay warm three winters long.
No good thing is failure and no evil thing success.
May the lord grant me a sword and no need to use it.
When you begin a mission, remember aktuh and melota.
Every church has its own poors.
When the bait's worth more than the fish, it's time to stop fishing.
Hard is a new law imposed on old licence.
We are both queens, so who will hang out the laundry?
The sick man is free to say all.
What don't kill does fatten.
It's easy to say "may allah roast the lion's mother,” when the lion isn't there.
Everything happens for a reason.
Rather than run into debt, wear your old coat.
If the river sounds, it's because it has water.
As soon as he set her down she said that she was tired.
Not much is worse than a troll.
Truth is twelve years old.
Like someone trying to capture water in his fist.
Pretty children sing pretty songs.
If only the wind would turn before I go home, said the woman rowing against the wind.
If you don't see the bottom, don't wade.
Many a one threatens and yet is afraid.
If you tell people to live together, you tell them to quarrel.
If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap.
Too much discussion will lead to a row.
A full ear of corn will bend its head; an empty ear will stand upright.
He who sups with the devil has need of a long spoon.
What is marriage, mother? "Child, it is spinning, having children, making money, and weeping.
Over-praise is a burden.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present.
Let me deal with my troubles myself.
Fortune rarely brings good or evil singly.
Small laziness leads to big laziness.
He who builds on the public way, must let the people have their say.
What is past is gone, what is hoped for is absent, for you is the hour in which you are.
All things hes an end, a Pudding hes twa.
Seeing once is better than hearing a hundred times.
Appearance cheats.
I wept when I was born and every day explains why.
He who is not lazy shall get much green.
Mules make a great fuss about their ancestors having been horses.
A woodpecker doesn't come to a living tree nor snake to a path of ants.
Don't mistake chicken dung for an egg.
One ass nicknames another "Long-ears.”.
Better your own cod than another's duck.
If you try to cleanse others - like soap, you will waste away in the process!
It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason.
False ambition serves the neck.
A climbing plant does not stay alone.
He that never fails never grows rich.
If one finger brought oil it soiled others.
Whatever is given to the poor, is laid out of the reach of fortune.
A living ass is better than a dead doctor.
The back of one door is the face of another.
You can't catch skunks with mice.
One sip of wine is an antidote against death, cupfuls poison life.
There is many a slip twixt cup and lip.
It is good to know the truth, but it is better to speak of palm trees.
He who builds a house, or marries, is left with a lank purse.
The more you know, the less you need.
Before honor is humility.
One man cut the barrage, and a thousand people fell into the river.
Marriage without love-making means sad consequences and sorrow.
Feed a crow and it will pluck out your eyes.
The best manure is under the farmer's shoe.
Diet cures more than the lancet.
A man has two ears and one mouth; he therefore should listen more than he talks.
Better coarse cloth than naked thighs.
Who doesn't want a fire, should remove the wood.
A knife wound heals; a wound caused by words does not.
Old people's speech is not to be dishonored-after all, they saw the sun first.
May the roof above us never fall in.
Destroying an Empire to win a war is no victory. And ending a battle to save an Empire is no defeat.
Aesop, "The Swallow and the Other Birds" (c. 6th century BC)
What the farmer does not know he doesn't eat.
A man of straw is better than a woman of gold.
Pleasures are shallow, sorrows deep.
There comes nothing out of the sack but what was there.
Under every stone sleeps a scorpion.
The apple does not fall far from its tree.
Don't prod the donkey while you're getting on.
If it does not kill you, it will bring you happiness.
The farmer grows the corn, but the bear eats it.
Yesterday will not be called again.
The hurrying fly falls into the milk.
To travel is to see, to return is to talk.
Sharp vinegar may damage its container.
The man from Laihia takes his mother-in-law also to the honeymoon, so the bride would not wear out.
Differences between husband and wife should not be aired in the marketplace.
Joy must have sorrow.
God has only one measure for all people.
A good man even in a tavern won't be spoiled, even church can save a bad man.
If you plant, you harvest.
Let ilka herring hing by its ain head.
It is the duty of children to wait on elders, and not the elders on children.
Repentance is the spring beneath our virtues.
Too much attention to the pigskin doesn't help the sheepskin.
If two people say he is drunk, the third one should sleep.
Trouble is to man what rust is to iron.
Good health is the sister of beauty.
Family names are like flowers, they blossom in clusters.
Fools are free all the world over.
Thou wilt scarce be a man before thy mother. (Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher)
Possession is the grave of pleasure.
The best memory is that which forgets nothing, but injuries.
If advice will not improve him, neither will the rod.
Health and cheerfulness make beauty; finery and cosmetics cost money and lie.
Take care of number one.
Nobility imposes obligations.
'tis the taste that tells the tale.
He who never has enough, never has anything.
The real journey of discovery begins in old age.
On which soil we stand on, that is where we carry the weight of the sky.
How quickly with all is a kindness forgotten!
There is a doorway that connects two hearts.
Everyone thinks his own spit tastes good.
What we own, we don't [safe]keep [properly]; when [we] lose [it], [we] cry.
A wrong step by the leader is a warning for those following.
Dignity and an empty sack is worth the sack.
Learn politeness from the impolite.
After rain comes fair weather.
He must have clean fingers who would blow another's nose.
When danger approaches, sing to it.
Go away and the conversation changes.
he has eaten so many snakes that has become a viper.
He can live even on flat ice.
As soon as one goes out the window, another comes in the door.
Who has many comforts and does not use them, won't find a confessor who will grant him absolution.
A person who is stung by a bee fears a big housefly.
Riches are not from abundance of worldly goods, but from a contented mind.
Marriage is a sack full of ninety-nine snakes and one eel.
The one chased away with a club comes back, but the one chased away with reason does not.
Who bites with a lie will swallow with pain.
He puts out the eye of somebody with something.
Who takes the child by the hand takes the mother by the heart.
You're casting pearls before swine.
An empty barrel makes the most noise.
When an ant says 'ocean', he's talking about a puddle.
She's a nut.
He that you seat upon your shoulder will often try to get upon your head.
To fear the wolves - not to go into the woods.
You cannot hunt with a tied dog.
No man can make his own good luck.
One does it for love, another for honour, a third for money.
Sore is the mouth that loses its first tooth.
Source: Prakash, Om (1995). "110". Vyavharik Hindi Shuddh Prayog. Rajpal & Sons. p. 166. ISBN 978-81-7028-107-8.
Two men may meet, but never two mountains.
Lawsuits consume time, and money, and rest, and friends.
The bow must not be always bent.
When the millers are making an uproar, do you tie up your sacks.
Keep your nose to the grindstone.
A woman told me that a woman told her.
We have a fine day more often than a kiln-cast.
Share and share alike.
Beware of false prophets.
If words could only speak, they'd mean even less.
It's not one person's fault if two people quarrel.
After all, harming others means you first harm yourself.
Not all the buds on a bush will blossom.
It is easier to blame than do better.
Old churches have dark windows.
A woman who is not successful in her own marriage has.
Refrain from getting involved in something that hasn't been well thought out.
Two watermelons can not be held under one arm.
Nothing weighs lighter than a promise.
An ounce of favour goes further, or is worth more, than a pound of justice.
It is good to swim near a boat.
Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord.
Love has its own language, but marriage falls back on the local dialect.
Be quick to follow up an advantage.
You need not grease a fat sow.
Success is a ladder which cannot be climbed with hands in your pocket.
You don't choose whom to love and not love.
Help the man climbing a hill, not the one standing below it.
The fool sings a love song to his wife, the wise man will talk about his dog.
He who passes a winter's day passes one of his mortal enemies.
If one man praises you, a thousand will repeat the praise.
Labour is light where love pays.
The buyer of the rotten beans is the blind man.
A word and a stone let go cannot be recalled.
The rich man plans for tomorrow, the poor man for today.
You must decide where you are going in the evening, if you intend to leave early in the morning.
Three are powerful: the Pope, the king, and the man who has nothing.
The kiln calls the oven burnt-heart.
You cannot expect me to carry you on my back and then you say my head smells.
The grunts of pigs never make it to heaven.
If you are going out for a fight leave your best hat at home.
The best way to find happiness is not to search for it.
Beggar beg from beggar him nebber get rich.
The more one drinks, the more one may.
A fool and his money are easily parted.
Man to the hills, woman to the shore.
The purse of loved ones is tied with a gossamer thread.
The rain can only drown the mud-rabbit if he hasn't the wits to keep his mouth shut.
A thief thinks everybody steals.
Blind is a man without a book.
Pain is forgotten where gain comes.
The end of the pig is the beginning of the sausage.
Eat what is cooked, listen to what is said.
Alertness and courage are life's shield.
Better be killed by robbers than by the kick of an ass.
Medicine is the noblest of all arts.
No one cries for losing money but the one who earned the money, no one cries for losing the child but his mother.
The cobbler's gaze is on the feet.
Drop by drop fills the tub.
It is not a matter of upper and lower class but of ups and downs.
Go not every evening to your brother's house.
An intelligent enemy is worth more than a stupid friend.
The bread never falls but on its buttered side.
A masquerade does not perform to an outside audience until he performs well at the home base.
Who leaves the old way for the new, the trouble not looked for, will be found there.
He that keeps another man's dog shall have nothing left him but the line.
Better half hanged than ill married.
Pains and patience would take a snail to america.
A short visit is best and that not too often.
Gold is a debt we can repay, but kindness not till our dying day.
Curses like chickens come home to roost.
Take a breath of the new dawn and make it a part of you.
Bad beginnings lead to a bad end.
What is an expert? Someone who is twenty miles from home.
Three men helping one another will do as much as six men singly.
He either wheedles by suasive means or terrifies by threats.
What is told in the ear of a man is often heard a hundred miles away.
If the world is flooded, it will be easy for the duck.
Intelligence is endowed, but wisdom is learned.
Stand away from dwarfs, for it's God who hit them on the head.
On his last legs.
A good laugh is sunshine in a house.
Many a sweet maid when one knows her mind is fickle found towards men.
An old debt is better than an old grudge.
Habits don't expire until the soul expires.
Wine bears no blame - only the drunkard.
Cheat the earth and the earth will cheat you.
Many have fallen with the bottle in their hand.
Ye will break your crag as soon as your fast in his house.
A boy is easier cheated than an old lady.
At a good bargain pause and ponder.
From the same wood you can make a cross or a club.
Sight goes before hearsay.
To enjoy life is worth so much more than it costs.
The flood takes him in, and the ebb takes him out.
He means well, but has a bad way of showing it.
Men make laws; women make morals.
Even the just has need of help.
If you want to smear somebody's face with mud, be prepared to dirty your hands.
The lion which moves silently is the one that eats meat.
Butterflies come to pretty flowers.
When it is spring time, the grass will even grow under a big stone.
The coat is quite new, only the holes are old.
Every bird relishes his own voice.
Distance is disaffection.
Only he who understands is really sad.
He runs far who never turns.
Love is like a baby: it needs to be treated tenderly.
Silver and gold are all men's dears.
Someone who doesn't want to be responsible for his doing.
Great trees keep little ones down.
Kind hearts are better than fair faces.
The sun will shine down our street too.
The trade of thick-headed Michael: eating, drinking, and idling.
A language silenced is a people who die.
Ambition is putting a ladder against the sky.
A performing masquerade who tries too hard to outclass his colleagues may expose his anus.
No matter where you go, your destiny follows you.
A child, a drunkard and a fool tell the truth.
In quietness and in confidence shall be your strength.
Go to law for a sheep and lose your cow.
Better be the head of a lizard than the tail of a dragon.
To have beautiful servant girls is a threat to good marriages.
Everything has an end--except a sausage, which has two.
When woman reigns the devil governs.
The arrogant blind man picks a fight with his guide.
A close mouth catches nae fleas.
Sometimes the only thing more dangerous than a question is an answer.
A little dog can start a hare, but it takes a big one to catch it.
A person can study for seventy years and at the end die a fool.
The man who looks after his own work has plenty to do to keep everything right.
Live today, forget the past.
We start as fools and become wise through experience.
Without work there is no dinner.
Maternity is a matter of fact, paternity is a matter of opinion.
For an honest man half his wits are enough; the whole is too little for a knave.
A drop hollows out a stone.
A tree never hits an automobile except in self-defense.
Love is a garden full of flowers and marriage is a field of stinging nettles.
It does no harm now and then to burn a candle for the devil.
You cant get blood out of a stone.
If you want good service, serve yourself.
Clear contracts make dear friends.
You can't steal second base with your foot on first.
If you forsake a certainty and depend on an uncertainty, you will lose both the certainty and the uncertainty.
It is a real compliment that comes from an enemy.
If you're to cure a chicken you do so while it is still kicking.
When you die, you will be spoken of as those in the sky, like the stars.
Listen to people twice as much as you speak.
No pleasure without pain.
Even if you know a thousand things, still consult him who knows something.
Shall the sheep go astray, they will be led by the ill goat.
The older the fiddle the sweeter the tune.
Two Wolves may worry ane Sheep.
If the defendant is silent the jury will think him guilty.
One certainty is better than ten uncertainties.
The wine given to your workmen is that for which you get the best paid.
A worthy woman is the crown of her husband.
Who dies today is safe from tomorrow's sin.
I'm human; nothing that is human is strange to me. A good run is better than a bad fight.
Counsel is nothing against love.
Our greatest deeds we do unknowingly.
A soldier who doesn't dream of becoming a general is a bad one.
Feather by feather the goose can be plucked.
Some evils are cured by contempt.
It is the fear of what tomorrow may bring that makes the tortoise to carry his house along with him wherever he goes.
Better a patient man than a warrior, one who controls his temper than one who takes a city.
If you have only two pennies left in the world, with the first penny, you should buy rice to feed your family. With the second penny, say the wise Japanese, you should buy a lily. The Japanese understand the importance of dreaming...
There is no one luckier than he who thinks himself so.
He who is to break his neck finds the stairs in the dark.
He is blind that eats his marrow, but far blinder that lets him.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
The pleasure of finding something is worth more than what you find.
Don't trust your bone to another man's dog.
He that looks to freets, freets follow him.
The savage ox grows tame on strange ground.
Bushes have ears, walls have eyes.
When a plate is covered, its contents are hidden.
In shallow waters, shrimps make fools of dragons.
These words won't become a loose skirt for Fati.
In much talk there is much bottom, inferior matter.
There is no bush so small but casts its shadow.
Talking about bulls is not the same as facing them in the ring.
Men for tea, women for talk.
Have faith and the way will open.
A donkey has two friends: his two hind legs.
Where there is action, there is waste.
A lie is like a jump from a high roof.
Abstinence is the best medicine.
He who tends to his own garden does not see the weeds of his neighbours.
The election of the abbot is not stopped for want of a monk.
Dead man is hard to wake.
You cannot eat nuts without breaking some shells.
A great sin can enter by a small door.
Behind the mountain are people too.
If one loves the ugly, one shall find it beautiful.
A lovelorn cook over-salts the porridge.
A tree that refuses to dance will be made to do so by the wind.
Loving your country is pious.
Trust in God - but tie your camel tight. ~ Persian Proverb.
A rich wife is a source of quarrel.
Women are as wavering as the wind.
You are only master of food that you haven't yet eaten.
Everybody has been young before, but not everybody has been old before.
Do not dispose of the monkey's tail before he is dead.
The more the billy goat stinks, the more the nanny goat loves him.
A late repentance is a dogs idea.
No one will give a pauper bread, but everybody will give him advice.
Even the dead in their family vaults enjoy being in large company.
To a man prepared for war, peace is assured.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Do not choose for anyone what you do not choose for yourself.
What is late is great.
Grapes picked too early don't even make good vinegar.
When a dog bites a man, that is not news; but when a man bites a dog, that is news.
He who eats cherries with gentlemen risks getting the pips in his nose.
He who goes to bed hungry dreams of pancakes.
If you are absent you lose your share.
One's own meat dishes are not as delicious as other's vegetarian ones.
What beats you is what teaches you.
Buy on the cannons, sell on the trumpets.
Marriage has teeth and it bites hard.
When a man finds that he was wrong to have refused to eat, he should leave his anger and play a harp to call for harmony.
If all the bees made honey, there would be enough for even gypsies to eat.
Those who tell the stories, rule the people.
Follow the saint no further than his doorstep.
He who strikes another on the neck, does not strike far from the head.
Diseases are the tax on pleasures.
An iron peace is better than a golden war.
God gives almonds to one who has no teeth.
It is easier to run from virtue to vice, than from vice to virtue.
What goes up must come down.
A day without bread lasts long.
They are fools whose sheep run away twice.
It is folly to fear what one cannot avoid.
An old friend is like a saddled horse.
A blow with a word strikes deeper than a blow with a sword.
No matter who comes off well, the peacemaker is sure to come off ill.
Neglect will sooner kill an injury than revenge.
Has spring in the chest like the cat of Vähämartti.
We don't kill a pig every day.
Only fools have no fear.
Sell high and give a fair measure.
Do not lengthen the quarrel while there is an opportunity of escaping.
Children act in the village as they have learned at home.
Corsair against corsair nothing is got but empty casks.
Не that is afraid of wounds must not come near a battle.
God save us from four people: doctors, notaries, pharmacists, and bad bosses.
Even a small thorn causes festering.
Don't be stupid to replace wisdom with knowledge because you will lose understanding.
It's best to prevent than to have to remedy.
Either be a mountain or lean on one.
The more one has, the more one wants.
The cimex lives in the firewood and still it reaches its full growth.
Play with your peers.
What the boss says goes.
He who rides behind another does not saddle when he will.
Thistles and thorns prick sore, but evil tongues prick even more.
Waiting is futile for whomever wants to kiss someone's backside.
A bird doesn't forget one who killed off his feathers during the rain season.
Pray, pray very much; but beware of telling God what you want.
Pray to God, but hammer away.
Explaining something to an ignorant person is harder than making a camel jump over a ditch.
Money from poor men and balls from dogs, impossible to hide.
The reasons of the poor weigh not.
The better day the better deed.
He who refuses a gift will not fill his barn.
Think before you begin.
Never watch a bonfire wearing a straw coat.
Kicking in an open door.
Could everything be done twice it would be done better.
The crocodile does not die under the water so that we can call the monkey to celebrate its funeral.
The soul is not where it lives, but where it loves.
He who fain would marry, in choice should not tarry.
It takes half your life to learn who your friends are and the other half to keep them.
Cockroach neber so drunk him walk a fowl yard.
Throw a resourceful person into a river, and he will probably come out with a fish in his hand.
Reason lies between the bridle and the spur.
To compare is not to improve.
It is better to be threatened by the sword of a Turk than by the pen of a German.
It is impossible to add much weight with a single morsel; it is hard to travel afar with a single step.
A person who has children does not die.
Better to be the beak of a chicken than the rump of an ox.
If you buy things you don't need, you'll soon be selling things you do.
The person who has not travelled thinks his or her mother is the best cook.
It is better to sit down than to stand, it is better to lie down than to sit, but death is the best of all.
To talk goodness is not good . . . only to do it is.
When the Devil was sick the Devil a monk would be, When the Devil got well, the devil a monk was he.
Antagonism is not good for fowls, and it is not good for goats; worse still, it is not good for human beings.
If the fool has a hunchback no one remarks about it; if a wise man has a boil everybody talks about it.
That which does the cultivating is in the stomach.
Command your man and do it yourself.
Mass is not repeated for the deaf.
He who has a stepmother has the devil at his hearth.
If you take care of your character, your reputation will take care of itself.
You cannot prevent the birds of sadness from passing over your head, but you can prevent them from nesting in your hair.
A new walk in an old field.
For safety you are taken prisoner.
The lazy man who goes to borrow a spade says, "I hope I will not find one.”.
Don't stay on the dew until the sun reaches its highest.
Spring has come when you can put your foot on three daisies.
Long sleep makes hot rowing.
Want all, loose all.
If youth but knew and age but could do.
A small fire in the hearth is better than fleas in the bed.
Choose your love, then love your choice.
Clothes should not be made for an unborn child.
Better a finger off than one wagging.
Who seeks more than he needs hinders himself from enjoying what he has.
We speak byh proverb: he who is intelligent will understand.
It's better that the bakers are on horseback than the doctors.
Let not your tongue cut your throat.
Every one can navigate in fine weather.
Don't meddle in others' affairs unless you want your own nose scraped a little.
Any excuse will serve a tyrant.
Fail to steal the chicken while it ate up your bait grain.
You make an elephant of a mouse.
He who comes from hell is not afraid of hot ashes.
The bush fowl saw the chicken being carved up and laughed. The chicken told the bush fowl to stop laughing. For the same hands now carving up the chicken would be used to carve up the bush fowl.
Hungry bear doesn't dance.
Wine is the best broom for troubles.
Take a man by his word, take a bull by its horn.
A sharp knife is nothing without a sharp eye.
Ten enemies cannot do a man the harm that he does to himself.
He goes around it like a cat goes around hot mush.
You can be a king, if you are brave.
Guluwe's two of yesterday.
After dark all cats are leopards.
Taking out and not putting in soon reaches the bottom.
Where the dam leaps over, the kid follows.
A tear bedews my Delia's eye, From morn till dewy eve; But if you ask the reason why, She can't tell, I believe.
Truth may walk through the world unarmed.
You can't keep a word of thanks in your pocket.
Mountains will never join other mountains but men will confront other men.
A brave man will face a situation no matter how dreadful.
Old age is a thousand headaches.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, prepare to die.
Not having enough is like not having anything.
Bad money is never lost.
Precepts may lead, but examples draw.
He whose mother is naked is not likely to clothe his aunt.
After clouds sunshine.
Your brother is who gives you a honest advice.
If you are going to go where corn grows, take a cutting tool with you.
God don't like ugly.
Better an egg today than the chicken tomorrow.
The mouth who ate the seeds asks, ‘now what shall I plant?'.
We run t'ings, t'ings noh run we.
The Wealthy man has even his crow laying him eggs.
The blessing of having many children has never broken a man's roof.
Lang look'd for comes at last.
Doubts mean losing half of one's case beforehand.
The lazy pig does not eat ripe pears.
Revenge of an hundred years old hath still its sucking teeth.
The end of mirth is the beginning of sorrow.
While the great bells are ringing no one hears the little ones.
The poor is hated by his neighbour, but the rich hath many friends.
You can't put a wide head on young shoulders.
Don't find fault with what you don't understand.
A secret is like a dove: when it leaves my hand it takes wing.
Even a log soaked in water will burn if it is placed near a fire.
Woe be to him whose advocate becomes his accuser.
If my neighbor is happy, my own work will go easier, too.
Nobility is what is earned by those who have no other earnings.
He turns in his grave.
Every man has one black patch, and some have two.
There is no pillow so soft as a clear conscience.
Idleness is mother to all vices.
There is no need like the lack of a friend.
Mountains and valleys stand firm but people meet.
It is good to go afoot when one is tired of riding.
A cute lamb can suck off of two mothers.
Hunt in every jungle, for there is wisdom and good hunting in all of them.
Too much bragging drives away wisdom.
Today's lung is better than tomorrow's fat.
Meaning: Wait too long and the opportunity is sure to vanish.
A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does: If he does not wash his hands, he is accused of being dirty. If he washes his hands, he is accused of wasting water.
The night hides a world, but reveals a universe.
The eye of the master makes the horse fat.
The one who removed the mountain was the one who began carrying away stones.
Truth often hides in an ugly pool.
If thoughts were legal witnesses, many an honest man would be proved a rogue.
A good place you don't go to is a good place: if you go too often, it isn't a good place any longer.
The crow blames the crow, both equally grey.
All of us are crazy in one way or another.
From walking -- something; from sitting -- nothing.
Debts remain from day to day.
I gave the mouse a hole and she is become my heir.
Who spits against the wind, it falls in his face.
The wrong-headed fool who refuses counsel, will come to grief.
Content is happiness.
If you want to make God laugh, tell him your plans.
It is a cart if it travels well, else it is but timber.
You can only be honest if you are well fed.
Limping justice ne'er will fail To hunt out the longest trail.
Just toss it in my hat and I'll sort it tomorrow.
An empty hand doesn't kill a snake.
There is something in the misfortune of our best friends which does not displease us.
You must not expect old heads upon young shoulders.
Who is well seated should not budge.
The weakest must hold the candle.
Who goes to church without his axe is a shitty man.
A beggar himself, can he afford to have one asking for alms at his door?
Fight a wolf with a flex stalk.
All weapons of war cannot arm fear.
You only hear three voices in this world: the babbling of the stream, jewish law, and money.
Be like a camel - carrying sweets but dining on thorns.
What should prevent the herring bag from having the odour of the herrings?
Give the wise man a hint and leave him to act.
An old patient is better than a new doctor.
That which is crooked cannot be made straight.
Nothing equals the joy of the drinker, except the joy of the wine in being drunk.
The old ones sing, the young ones pipe.
Money is round, so it rolls away.
Conversation shortens the distance, singing lightens the load.
Empty waggons make most noise.
If you know his father and grandfather, don't worry about his son.
Nae man has a tack of his life.
Prepare now for the solutions of tomorrow.
Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee.
If you play with the fool at home, he will play with you abroad.
When I eat your bread, I sing your song.
Hastiness is the beginning of wrath, and its end repentance.
If children's prayer had any effect, there wouldn't be a single teacher alive.
People are like eels in the water, they wander this way and that.
Marriage is the sunset of love.
Death is the poor man's doctor.
Knowledge is proud that he knows so much; wisdom is humble that he knows no more.
The person who offends writes as if it was written on sand, and the person who is offended reads it as if it were written on marble.
It is good fishing in streamy water.
A boat stands firmer with two anchors.
If a man fools me once, shame on him; if he fools me twice, shame on me.
Because a man has injured your goat, do not go out and kill his bull.
The unborn baby that fears criticism will never be born.
The worst wheel makes most noise.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
A house without a wife is like a safe without money.
Painted flowers have no scent.
I dreamed a thousand new paths.i woke and walked my old one.
Husband, don't see; wife, be blind.
An unjust king is like a river without water.
He who lives by the church shall serve the church.
A porcupine speaking to its baby says, "o my child of velvet.”.
Better to be alone than in bad company.
If the sky falls there will be pots broken.
A statement once let loose cannot be caught by four horses.
Intelligence is the best capital.
Duty is weightier than a mountain, while death is lighter than a feather.
Where bees are, there is honey.
From small beginnings come great things.
A fable is a bridge that leads to truth.
Fire could leave ashes behind.
Order the lazybones a task and let him give you advice.
Black people must stop acting like crabs in a barrel and work together.
He that deals in dirt has ay foul fingers.
The blood soup made of one palm nut is shared in little drops.
Whom a serpent has bitten a lizard alarms.
Better to fall from the window than the roof.
Old love does not rust.
If you like to have things easy, you'll have difficulties; if you like problems, you will succeed.
Proverbs are the daughters of experience.
It is safe to lend barley to him who has oats.
Thick wine is better than clear water.
You can't buy fate.
One goes to fetch water with a jug for so long, until the handle breaks away.
He that tickles himself, may laugh when he will.
Every one has his place: the dead in the cemetery and the living at the table.
Genius is one part inspiration and three parts perspiration.
The fewer the words, the better the prayer.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a farmer too lazy to plant his field.
Yes, old: But never sexually cold.
A clear sky fears not the thunder.
A bird will not fly with one wing.
Wolves never gossip about each other.
To pull somebody by a wire.
A word to the wise is sufficient.
Does the left hand chop off the right?
The world of humans is divided by lines, but the mind knows no limits, the heart no barriers.
It is good sailing with wind and tide.
Language is not plain.
A child without education is like a bird without wings.
The ox which eats hay, works the entire day.
When you lose on the drum-beating if the Gods, you lose on the rhythm and pace of life.
A pure heart has few desires.
He that lives upon hope has a slim diet.
The battle-club would not find out your name -- it would just find your flesh.
An open door tempts a saint.
Better to be a free dog than a caged lion.
No one is poor but he who thinks himself so.
When a stone hits glass, the glass breaks.
The chicken that stays in the farmyard, will peck the crumbs.
Manhood is quite a struggle, old age a regret.
Even foul water will quench fire.
The empty vessel makes the greatest sound.
He who steals an egg will steal more.
When a mother has twins she must sleep on her back.
As the lion said, 'I will kill your lambs and you will remember my presence.'
Art has no enemy except ignorance.
Remove the stone and you won't stumble.
Every man likes his own praise best.
Like stepping into the water without knowing its depth.
A bottle that believes it's cracked to smile it will end up on the dustbin.
God made low branches for birds that cannot fly so well.
The man that blushes is not quite a brute.
One, one cocoa full basket.
Vices creep into our hearts under the name of virtue.
Misers' money goes twice to market.
Pray indeed, but get to work.
Safely housed to listen to the storm outside.
One man's story is no story; hear both sides.
He who did not help building the minaret, thinks that it just grew out from the ground.
War is pleasant to those who have not tried it.
Life is a long journey with a heavy bag on its back.
The price of a laugh is too high, if it is raised at the expense of another.
Honour blossoms on the grave.
Beauty may open doors but only virtue enters.
Teaching others teacheth yourself.
Man is a wolf to man.
Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor.
Poverty does not destroy virtue, nor does wealth bestow it.
Those who do not go to war roar like lions.
Name not a rope in his house who hanged himself.
Who acts not, fails not.
With virtue you can't be entirely poor; without virtue you can't really be rich.
Care for the land, care for the people, go forward.
Difficulties make you a jewel.
There are 40 kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense.
A single merit cannot make a hundred demerits fade; a hundred merits cannot hide a single demerit.
Fish cannot survive in absolutely clear water.
The devil seduced Eve in Italian. Eve mislead Adam in Bohemian. The Lord scolded them both in German. Then the angel drove them from paradise in Hungarian.
A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.
Angels bend down their wings to a seeker of knowledge.
Nature is better than a middling doctor.
Men that crawl, never fall.
God's mill goes slowly, but it grinds well.
Where one door closes, another one opens.
Break the legs of an evil custom.
The tooth laughs with the lance.
Stop that man, he's got my knife in the back!
He who wrongs someone has to expect something in retaliation.
Gypsy gold does not chink and glitter, it gleams in the sun and neighs in the dark.
The victor is always right.
A good smile shows how happy the soul is.
While the pot boils, friendship blooms.
Money talks.
Do not sell sun in July.
Injury is to be measured by malice.
The crutch of time does more than the club of Hercules.
An old woman is always uneasy when dry bones are mentioned in a proverb.
The thief who can't steal anymore has become a Christian.
All kinds of fame belong partly to others.
Peace is good for business.
A spur in the head is worth two in the heel.
Heaps of good cotton stocks get chopped up from association with the weeds.
The prayer of the innocent has no wings.
A dog as he sleeps barks as if on the track of the hare.
He who is hungry is never a good civil servant.
He who goes out to sea loses his place.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
From the father comes honour, from the mother comfort.
Amendment is repentance.
It is an equal failing to trust everybody and to trust nobody.
The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door.
Who is tender in everything is a fool in everything.
More the hurry, more the obstacles.
As the virtue in the tree, such is the fruit.
Be cautious but polite.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
To be good tends to give absence later on.
A sea will not dry up, a nation will not get lost.
A physician is also a man who pours special drugs into lots of bodies he rarely loves.
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
One eats figs whilst the other pays.
If a man believes in a stone, that stone will serve him well.
Every dog is a lion at home.
If I went to sea I should find it dry.
Brothers are like hands and feet.
If you go out a lot at night, you will probably meet ghosts.
Great thieves hang the little ones.
One finger cannot lift a pebble.
As there is Easter, so there are meager times.
He who holds the ladder is as bad as the thief.
Don't make little of your dish, for it may be an ignorant person who judges it.
Poverty is crafty.
Marking the Boat to Seek One's Sword.
Persist as resolutely as you persist in eating.
What can you expect from a hog but a grunt?
When the fox preaches then beware your geese.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
If you are going a long way, go slowly.
Little and lasting is better than much and passing.
Activity breeds prosperity.
By going and coming, a bird weaves its nest.
If you wish to die young, make your physician your heir.
Speak not ill of the year until it is past.
If the lips are gone, the teeth will grow cold.
Too much callaloo, mek peppa-pot stew bitter.
Cold teaches a man how to steal charcoal.
Fire has no brother.
We are born from the womb of our mother; we are buried in the womb of the earth.
One cannot become a priest just by having a rosary.
It is not with saying honey, Honey, that sweetness will come into the mouth.
The poor man eats at double cost.
Even though the procession is long, it will still end up in church.
Roots of evil bear bitter fruits.
The earth covers the errors of the physician.
Even honor is not an honor, if there is nothing to eat.
When drink is in, wit is out.
Much noise and little wool, said the devil, when he was shearing the sow.
Everyone's faults are not written on their foreheads.
The wolf is always said to be more terrible than he is.
A pregnant woman is not afraid if you threaten her with what you made her pregnant with.
Water that has reached its level does not flow.
Small rain lays a great wind.
From the fallen tree everyone makes firewood.
Let rats fight with each other.
The smarter you get the fewer words you'd say.
Nice words are free, so choose ones that please another's ears.
I shall sit on his skirt.
Light burdens break nae banes.
Everyone is as god made him and very often worse.
Profit by the folly of others.
A man's home is his castle.
Who does not choose dies of hunger.
Visits always give pleasure – if not the arrival, the departure.
Two rich persons do not wish each other a bird of ill omen.
Don't just aim; hit the target.
He moves all the stones, to achieve something.
Grease to the wheels.
A happy memory is a joy forever.
A man who marries an outcast is like rain wasted in the forest.
A chicken that hatches a crocodile's eggs is looking for trouble.
The blind would lead the blind.
The fat buffalo will attract the lean buffalo.
Once you have locked your door you are the emperor in your own domain.
If you can't ride two horses at once, you shouldn't be in the circus.
Don't seek to hurt any man, but if any man seeks to hurt you may he break his neck.
Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends.
Don't cross a bridge before you come to it.
A flea can trouble a lion more than the lion can harm a flea.
Eat till you sweat and work till you freeze.
He who doesn't look ahead remains behind..
Experience is what you get when you didn't get what you wanted.
Old birds are hard to pluck.
The rich man transgresses the law, and the poor man is punished.
The dog that bites does not bark in vain.
The most important thing is not to win, but to fight well.
Look with suspicion on the flight of an enemy.
If you dig a hole to bury a person but instead of burying that person you may be the one to be buried in this place.
If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower.
God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night.
A mother's love never ages.
Take gifts with a sigh; most men give to be paid.
Dance, father, people's eyes don't eat, they just stare.
It's better to be a hammer than a nail.
A little body doth often harbour a great soul.
The destroyer of a country is a citizen of that country.
He that sleeps sound feels not the toothache.
My son's my son till he gets him a wife; my daughter's my daughter all of her life.
He that blows in the dust fills his eyes with it.
It is a nasty bird that files its ain nest.
He who tries a bit of everything accomplishes much of nothing.
Anyone can fancy his bed as a palace.
Those who get their kola nut cracked by the spirit should should not forget to be humble.
Good counsel does no harm.
Even an accomplished physician cannot cure himself.
If you eat someone's cake, you must also eat his lentils.
Wise people can't answer the most foolish questions.
One is born, one dies; the land grows.
Man is always beaten by his own tricks.
Who rides slow, must saddle betimes.
Whoever digs a hole for someone else, will fall in it themselves...Aki másnak vermet ás, maga esik bele.
If the camel once gets his nose in a tent, his body will soon follow.
When you have read a book for the first time, you get to know a friend; read it for a second time and you meet an old friend.
Before you flare up at anyone's faults, take time to count ten of your own.
Think before (you act).
Better a clout nor a hole out.
My dog slaps you with his tail and bites you with his teeth.
One blacksmith envies another.
The sun passes over filth and is not dirtied.
One who is ignorant will remain unnoticed.
Austerity is an ornament, humility is honorable.
To describe a person who has just gotten out from a precarious situation just to get into another precarious situation.
He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another.
A satiated man doesn't know what's hunger, a healthy man doesn't know what's disease.
Friendship is honey - but don't eat it all.
Money burns many.
Beyond the mountain is another mountain.
A guest sees more in an hour than a host in a year.
Words are like spears: Once they leave your lips they can never come back.
One man beats the bush, another catcheth the bird.
He who knows nothing neither doubts nor fears anything.
If you've done good, stay silent; if good has been done to you, share to others.
Whatever advice you give, be short.
He who is accustomed to evil is offended by good.
When a dog cannot bite, it has a bone in its mouth.
The road to heaven is equally short, where'er we die.
It is a good horse that never stumbles, and a good wife that never grumbles.
Fair words, but look to your purse.
At a time a cockerel matures, it begins to crow to tell the world the time of day.
Better a thousand enemies outside the tent than one within.
That which is said at the table should be wrapped up in the tablecloth.
What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.
You can run into debt, but you have to crawl out.
What good is it to run when you're on the wrong road?
I bear the laurel-branch.
Together, it's cramped; apart, it's boring.
A scribe who does not know how to grasp the meaning -- from where will he produce a translation?
If someone says "there is a wedding ceremony in the clouds,” then the women would soon arrive with their ladders.
The word "yes" brings trouble; the word "no" leads to no evil.
A golden plate is worth nothing to me when my blood is spilled on it.
Mint flower: the more you say "go away", the closer it comes.
Winter has winter's manners.
You cannot make a silk purse of a sow's ear.
Necessity breaks iron.
Great cry and little wool, as the devil said when he sheared the sow.
Because of John hating St.
Fear the Greeks bearing gifts.
Don't think you are eloquent just because a fool applauds you.
Many stumble at a straw and leap over a block.
Smooth words do not flay the tongue.
I paid a goat because I blaabed.
Those who are absent are always wrong.
If you sleep with targs, you'll wake up with glob flies.
Necessity changes a lion into a fox.
Climb mountains to see lowlands.
News does not sleep on the way.
The wolf repents only in death.
Every fox must pay his own skin to the flayer.
No fine clothes can hide the clown.
A woman talks to one man, looks at another, and thinks about a third.
How can you put out a fire set on a cart-load of firewood with only a cup of water.
Bush natural; more hair than wit.
The most important thing you have to do is to save your soul.
Keep your tongue in your jaw and your tow in your pump.
The big fish is caught with big bait.
You can't become a teacher before your taught.
Desert and reward seldom keep company.
A thrashing river is a fisherman's bounty.
The four seasons are salt, pepper, mustard and vinegar.
The man who has eaten enough will never believe a hungry one.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world.
The ready back gets all the loads.
Bad fowl, bad egg.
A full ear requires three good things: good time, good seeds and good hoeing.
Pretty girls, nice daughters, but from where do the mean women come?
A roaring lion kills no game.
The weaker the argument, the stronger the words.
One law for the rich and another for the poor.
A hyena is used to persistent rains.
Better be one-eyed than quite blind.
Envy is the truest form of flattery.
From a fallen tree, all make kindling.
He who spends a night with a chicken will cackle in the morning.
No friendship can survive the gift of gold.
Over narrow counting culzies no kindnesse.
It is not good for all our wishes to be filled; through sickness we recognize the value of health; through evil, the value of good; through hunger, the value of food; through exertion, the value of rest.
Isn't another's example enough for you?
An open countenance often conceals close thoughts.
For better for worse they have married me.
The friar who prays in god's name prays for two.
It is a poor mouse that doesn't have more than one hole.
That's my tale where's yours.
Water does run, but blood does clod.
When two divorced people marry, four people get into bed.
An old cat likes young mice.
A good borrower is a lazy payer.
Take no notice of the stupid things people say.
The three faults of drinking are: a sorrowful morning, a dirty coat, and an empty pocket.
It is not by saying, 'honey, honey,' that sweetness comes into the mouth.
Love is blind, so you have to feel your way.
Don't go to the doctor for every malady, nor to the lawyer for every disagreement, nor to the fountain for every thirst.
Seven is company, and nine confusion.
He who goes to the blacksmith's shop comes home with scorched clothes.
Poverty wants many things, and avarice all.
We come and cry and that is life, we cry and go and that is death.
Add legs to the snake one has just painted.
Cotton cannot play with fire.
Many hens may be in love with one cock, but none will be jealous of the other.
It is easier to be a happy bachelor for a year than a widower for a month.
It's no good trying to bite your navel.
Virtue is the reward of virtue.
The worst you can do to truth is to cloth it in lies, you can't undo it.
Better a bed of wood than a bier of gold.
Pleasure and pain succeed each other.
Blood is thicker than water.
Cats don't catch the old birds.
Guard your honor from your youth, and your weapons once you've got them in hand.
Patience is safety, haste is blame.
There is no flower that remains red for ten days, and no power that lasts for ten years.
A river that forgets its source will soon dry out.
A hard knot requires a hard wedge.
Do not throw away the oars before the boat reaches the shore.
Silence is sometimes the answer.
Better than a thousand days of diligent study is one day with a great teacher.
A person slips, and a ladder falls on him.
Reason is absent, when impulse rules.
A woman is flax, man is fire, the devil comes and blows the bellows.
It is not disgraceful to ask, it is disgraceful not to ask.
If you give him cloth, he'll ask for the lining.
One naturally prefers one's own kind.
Instead of opening your mouth, open your eyes.
Better belly burst than good meat lost.
Everyone wants to go to heaven; the desire is there but the fortitude is not.
Sorrow treads upon the heels of mirth.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
Everything in its season and the crow in August.
Whether bad or good, christ doesn't say why it happens.
So shall she charm that thou shalt not heed the council, or words of the king.
Better dry bread in peacetime than meat in wartime.
The best bullfighter is the one in the box seats.
The tongue is not steel, yet it cuts.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
It is easy to advise the wise.
A small red snuff-box is a welcome.
A common blot is held no stain.
Whether it is roasted or not, you should sprinkle the grain.
No matter how sharp it is, a knife will never cut it's own handle.
His presents conceal a baited hook.
Spit at heaven and you'll get it back in your face.
He who does not feed his cat will feed rats.
He must cry aloud who would scare the devil.
The fear of God is not wearing a white turban.
When it rains and the sun comes out, foxes make love.
With money you can build a road in the sea.
A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich.
Precipitate counsel--perilous deed.
You can't get at the precious sago without first breaking the bark.
Never give thanks for a favor held back.
The bird sings with its voice but the grasshopper sings with its thighs.
History never repeats itself, but it does rhyme.
The person seeking India's riches must have them within himself.
A hound's food is in its legs.
The whole ocean is made up of single drops.
Trouble will rain on those who are already wet.
The rich man doesn't pay, the debtor does.
I eat what others have planted and I plant what others want to eat.
You can't throw a handkerchief over somebody's mouth.
Fortune is made of glass.
Remember, it is forbidden to live in a town which has no garden or greenery.
Even an old woman may run when a goat carries her snuff-box.
He who asks questions, cannot avoid the answers.
Where there is sunshine, there is also shade.
Love and let the world know, hate in silence.
The stronger man will rule the house.
The leader follows in front.
There is nothing new under the sun.
All things must pass.
No one can have peace longer than his neighbour pleases.
Hi is as albatross that observes the ocean.
If my shirt knew my design, I'd burn it.
If thine enemy wrong thee, buy each of his children a drum.
A person who never travels, believes his mother's cooking is the best in the world.
Dry bread is better with love than a fat capon with fear.
You cannot shift an old tree without it dying.
Because he killed his wife he took shelter with his in-laws.
Drunkenness and anger speak truthfully.
It's only love, said the husband when wife threw an axe.
The stranger has big eyes but he doesn't see anything.
A lazy tailor finds his thread too long.
If you shake a dog, you shake his owner.
Good corn is not reaped from a bad field.
If you want to know what a man is really like, notice how he acts when he loses money.
There is no economy in going to bed early to save candles if the result is twins.
Never try to catch two frogs with one hand.
Help from abroad always comes when the rain has stopped.
The horses of hope gallop, but the asses of experience go slowly.
One thief will not rob another.
The slanderer kills a thousand times; the assassin but once.
Love covers many infirmities.
Be careful for deep water and dogs that do not bark.
If it is good then the deed is more important than the intention; if it's bad then the intention is worse than the deed.
After a storm fair weather, after sorrow joy.
The seeking for one thing will find another.
Each should sweep before his own house.
Strong legs are needed to carry good days.
To catch a hare with a tabor.
Get advice, then make your own decision.
Quiet people, whether wise or dull, get the benefit of the doubt.
Men are as old as they fell, and women as they look.
Fortune and glass break soon, alas.
Of two evils choose the least.
The saddest thing is the death of the heart.
He who goes to the mill gets befloured.
Will laugh well who will laugh the last.
Custom is a second nature.
The dog returns to its vomit.
One who waits for chance may wait a year.
Good broth may be made in an old pot.
Sow much, reap much; sow little, reap little.
Calm water washes away.
A mosquito is noticed in the eyes of another, but not an elephant in the eyes of ones own self.
Death is a scar that never heals.
When threatened, fight.
One goat cannot carry another goat's tail.
That mouse will have a tail.
The frost will bring the pig home.
Silence is a fine jewel for a woman, but it is little worn.
The poor have no time to spare.
While the sheep bleats it loses its mouthful.
Various are the roads to fame.
Those who eat alone, die alone.
You can't win them all.You win a few, you lose a few.
Water is the strongest drink; it drives mills.
If you talk too much you're likely to give yourself away.
The man to whom God gives no children, the devil gives nieces and nephews.
If you have to swallow a frog, try not to think about it. If you have to swallow two frogs, don't swallow the smaller one first.
When the jest is at its best, 'twill be well to let it rest.
Even the devil's grandmother was a nice girl when she was young.
Good manners is the greatest friend.
Good care takes the head off bad luck.
He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow.
Empty casks make the most sound.
There is no muddy water that doesn't clear.
Make sure better than cock-sure.
Doctors make the worst patients.
Thirty-six plans of how to win the battle are not so good as one plan to withdraw from the fight.
If every man would sweep his own door-step the city would soon be clean.
Water ends up at the sea.
Laws have wax noses.
A good retreat is better than a poor fight.
If you like what you are doing, nothing is too far and no job is too hard.
Ill vessels seldom miscarry.
To teach well, we need not say all that we know. Successful teachers are effective in spite of the psychological theories they suffer under.
When you are poor, you will have no visitors even if you live in a crowded city; once you become rich, you'll be surprised by visitors from alleged relatives even if you live in a remote location.
If wood-hewing were an order, there would be fewer monks.
You can't kill a dog just to save a cat's tail.
The faded rose No suitor knows.
When the poor man is burried, the large bell of the parish is silent.
Rain wets the leopard's spots, but it doesn't wash them off.
The immature rice stalk stands erect, while the mature stalk, heavy with grain, bends over.
Give a dog a bad name and he'll live up to it. (or ...he'll repay you for it.)
Every one rakes the fire under his own pot.
Even if we eat, earth will eventually enter our mouth.
A woman in the house is like a kaka in the forest.
God blesses a drunk.
Money swore an oath that nobody that did not love it should ever have it.
Marry a man older than you and not a younger man, who will tire of you.
The eye of God is large.
Dark days and storms heighten the appreciation of sunshine.
If `almost' did not exist, said the woman, "than I would have shot a hare."
If you wait long enough, it will be good weather.
The real hero doesn't say that he is one.
I tell you one thing, two will result from it.
The moon doesn't hear and the day doesn't see.
Self trust is the first secret of success.
It is easier to transport an ant hill than exercise authority in a village.
The fox goes through the corn and does not eat, but brushes it down with his tail.
The soul of a rich man has no taboos.
The seagull thinks it is an act of kindness to give the fish a lift in the air.
The one who sleeps in his room knows where it is leaking.
My life and soul at your service, but not the pack-saddle.
He who dies for the truth finds holy ground everywhere for his grave.
Let the shoemaker remain at his last.
A sparrow in hand is worth more than a vulture flying.
You will never know the importance of the buttocks, until they develop a boil.
Want of wit is waur than want of health.
The unwritten law - the common law.
It is a foolish bird that soils its own nest.
He who does not work, must not eat.
A man of straw is worth a woman of gold.
It's easier to tear a hole than to mend one.
I have lanced many boils, but none pained like my own.
Hope is the dream of the waking.
One finger alone cannot even kill a louse.
Poverty is not a crime.
Nought lay down, nought take up.
God forgives the sin of gluttony.
Slander slays three persons: the speaker, the spoken to, and the spoken of.
The flesh of a young animal tastes flat.
Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night.
No tree falls at the first stroke.
Tired oxen must tread hard.
The turtle lays thousands of eggs without anyone knowing, but when the hen lays an egg, the whole country is informed.
A person's cleverness is not shown by how many words he utters at once but how he utters them.
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreasefh.
What is wrong to-day won't be right to-morrow.
A cowardly hyena lives longer.
Time is the best counselor.
Anger is shortlived in a good man.
It is better that trials come to you in the beginning and you find peace afterwards than that they come to you at the end.
These three take crooked ways: carts, boats, and musicians.
Children are the riches of the poor.
Although the sun shines, leave not your cloak at home.
When a yam doesn't grow well, we don't blame it; it is because of the soil.
Old sheep shouldn't dress in lamb's fashion.
'Kanywanjui' scratches its thigh.
What you cannot see during the day, you will not see at night.
Only the soil knows when a young mouse is ill.
Every hill has its leopard.
Easy to know men's faces, not their hearts.
You cannot forge a good sword from bad iron.
Hope is a great breakfast but a poor dinner.
Though trouble be lame, it will arrive.
If you do not study hard when young you'll end up bewailing your failures as you grow up.
The edge of the sword comes from sharpening, and the fragrance of plum blossom comes from the bitter cold.
Make a garden or plant, and a man is happy for life.
If the tiger sits, do not think it is out of respect.
Age before beauty; pearls before swine.
If you want fire, look for it in the ashes.
A vain woman is not worth a nickel.
A lazy messenger is not short of excuses.
A leopard's spots: or, what is bred in the babe will come out in the flesh.
You became full by eating, it won't happen by licking.
Death has the key to open the miser's chest.
Eyes that do not cry, do not see.
From afar he takes the heart, from nearby the gall-bladder.
Until lions have their own historians tales of the hunt will always glorify the hunter.
Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it does make you sweat a lot.
Gifts break rocks and melt hearts.
Where malice has taken root, friendship can never be formed.
The fish was so fresh that it was being cooked while its tail was still in the sea.
There is no name which cannot distinguish a child.
Where the river is deepest it makes the least noise.
Money is only good for a weekday, a holiday, and a rainy day.
The brains of a fox will be of little service if you play with the paw of a lion.
Don't throw away your dirty water until you get clean.
The pipe is nearer than the wife.
The difference is wide that the sheets will not decide.
The coward shoots with shut eyes.
The horse thinks one thing, and his rider another.
Never cut what can be untied.
Willing exile is exile nonetheless.
There are two perfect men; one dead, and the other unborn.
There is no flying from fate.
There is a thin line between love and hate.
Every camel was once upon time two years old.
Thought breaks the heart.
No one is hurt by doing the right thing.
Look at the man you serve and you will see how much you are esteemed.
Without temptation there is no victory.
Who ha' fingernail no ha' itch, and who ha' itch no ha' fingernail.
Love, coughing, and smoke can't be kept concealed.
Doctors must be old and lawyers must be young.
A much-used plow shines; stagnant waters stink.
[I] would have had no luck, if not for misfortune.
Justice is a good thing, only not in my house, but in my neighbor's.
He who keeps a secret prevents much mischief.
The bullet that doesn't hit anything still makes a noise.
Even the devil slaves for the fortunate.
He who sleeps along keeps long cold, two soon warm each other.
A god-given beauty needs no beautician.
Fight with silver spears, and you will overcome everything.
Where God builds a church, the devil builds a chapel.
He who cannot paint must grind the colors.
A spaniel, a woman, and a walnut-tree, the more they're beaten the better they be.
Only those who do nothing never make a mistake.
A trouble shared is a trouble halved.
Tell me who your friends is, I'll tell you who you are.
The woman is cold water that kills you; deep water that you drown in.
Too many irons in the fire.
Where pig is proffered, go round with a sack.
Before his appointed time, a person cannot die though thrown into the very jaws of death; but when that time arrives, even a straw destroys him.
When a father gives to his son, they both laugh.
Faults are thick where love is thin.
That which is his lot to-day may be yours to-morrow.
Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone.
Wisdom is in the books.
Butterflies in the belly. - Excitement.
Every vessel has its own waves.
Do good if you expect to receive it.
He who make more of you than he is wont, either means to cheat you or wants you.
I feel pain that envy is exchanged for beautiful deeds.
A smart man is usually humble.
It is better to sup with a cutty than want a spoon.
When a tiny toe is hurting the whole body stoops down to attend to it.
Better to blush once than pale a hundred times.
False friends are worse than open enemies. Коварный друг опаснее заклятого врага.
He who begins ill finishes worse.
Wealth does not bring happiness.
Avoid strife with those in power.
Kings have a long ears.
There are no birds in last year's nest.
Make not your sail too big for your ballast.
Where there is no grain, this is a sign of vengeance turned towards a city. Where there are no reeds, it is the worst of all poverty.
make your hay before the fine weather leaves you.
The stomach never gets full with licking.
I can get another husband but never another brother.
The advice of the aged will not mislead you.
Old saws speak truth.
You can't escape your fate [even] with a horse.
Although the snake does not fly it has caught the bird whose home is in the sky.
The scales tip where the weight is.
A leopard cannot change its spots.
When a cock invites a cockroach for a birthday party, he has prepared dinner for himself.
Love, should i escape your snares, i doubt that i can be trapped by any other means.
Beauty is eloquent even when silent.
One wedding brings another.
Who is in front everywhere often gets a nose-burn.
No one should be judge in his own cause.
One should not stir the shit as it will be even more stinking.
A blind man swallows many a fly.
A handsome shoe often pinches the feet.
Good repute is like the cypress: once cut, it never puts forth leaf again.
A loss not missed by your neighbor is not a real loss.
Marriage halves our griefs, doubles our joys, and quadruples our expenses.
The next time ye dance, wit whom ye take by the hand.
Cowards die many times, but a brave man only dies once.
A proverb is the horse of conversation: when the conversation lags, a proverb revives it.
With lies you may go ahead in the world--but you can never go back.
The lion does not turn around when a small dog barks.
All are not your friends who smile at you.
He has coosten his cloak on the ither shouther.
Storm in a glass of water.
In a conclave many go in as a pope but come back out as the cardinal they were when they went in.
Like the body that is made up of different limbs and organs, all mortal creatures exist depending upon one another.
One and one are sometimes eleven.
As long as you stay in a group, the lion will stay hungry.
Money isn't everything, but it's way ahead of whatever is in second place.
'tis one beggar's woe, to see another by the door go.
Age is honorable and youth is noble.
The guest who seeks special attention muddies the host's tea.
Change yourself; change your fortunes.
He who is a Basque, a good Christian and has two mules, needs nothing more.
I thought I had no husband, and I eat up the stew.
I met a hundred men going to Delhi and everyone is my brother.
Good grape becomes fox's possession.
The fly is small, but it is big enough to make one sick.
If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?
The servant of the devil does more than is asked for.
The eye is the one that eats.
He hath good judgement that relieth not wholly on his own.
Though old and wise, yet still advise.
Knowledge is not the main thing, but deeds.
A woman is like a banana; one alone can turn the whole bunch rotten.
Speak fair, and think what you will.
Things coming from afar are most esteemed.
The cat got an order and delegated it to her tail.
Religion is the best armor in the world, but the worst cloak.
However high you lift the kid goat, you place it gently on the ground.
Too aim is not enough, you must hit!
When you see a goat you should always hit him, because he is either going into mischief or coming out of it.
Habit is a second nature.
A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool.
With money you can make the dead speak; without it you can't even keep the deaf quiet.
Wise men learn at another's expense.
He who doesn't cry doesn't suckle.
It needs no laran to prophesy snow at midwinter.
Small matters breed important ones.
The good wife at her husband's home, the other one is at her parent's home.
Not everyone who has a cowl on is a monk.
Whoever rides into the flood, either does not own the animal or doesn't value it.
You surrender your freedom where you deposit your secret.
If you suspect a man, don't employ him, and if you employ him, don't suspect him.
A slave must be humble.
Golden hands, but a wicked mouth.
Many a sudden change takes place on a spring day.
In this treacherous world there is neither truth nor lie; everything is like the color of the crystal through which you gaze.
When the wise man gets angry, he stops being wise.
Work expands so as to fill the time available.
Hell is paved with good intentions, roofed in with lost opportunities.
The hand that rocks the cradle rules the nation and its destiny.
All lizards lie on their bellies, but nobody knows which of them suffers stomach ache.
An old rat easily finds a hole.
When February comes, hobnail your shoes.
Sickness accompanies a waning moon; a new moon cures disease.
When a woman is hungry, she says, Roast something for the children that they might eat.
The neighbour's meadow is always greener.
A child who is to be successful is not reared exclusively on a bed of down.
What soap is for the body, tears are for the soul.
Don't break down, rope; this is the last jerk.
Polite words open iron gates.
One cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
A long beard and a rosary will not make you a priest.
The truth rises to the surface like oil on water.
Nothing is grievous which necessity enjoins.
A curst cow has short horns.
If you must be a servant, serve the rich; if you must be a dog, let it be a temple dog.
Treachery darkens the chain of friendship, but truth makes it brighter than ever.
Men will love each other as long as one is richer than the other.
He that is of a merry heart hasth a continual feast.
If you haven't done anything evil then you shouldn't be worried about devils knocking on your door.
Unaccustomed to wear them, he displays the breeches he has on to every one he meets.
Darkness caused to dance even him who cannot.
Who keeps quiet, agrees.
The eye envies, not the ear.
If you don't have time to do it right you must have time to do it over.
The fire heeds little whose cloak it burns.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
A sin of gold is followed by a punishment of lead.
He who has not yet reached the opposite shore should not make fun of him who is drowning.
Where it rains it shows, where it snows it whitens.
If a bird does not recognise a tree, it will not rest on it.
Curse well.
Gentility, sent to market, will not buy a peck of meal.
Two may lie so as to hang a third.
The mind is the emperor of the body.
He is like a deaf man at a wedding procession.
One needs a long spoon to sup with the devil.
It is hard to take wool off a goat.
Better stay with the devil you know than an angel you don't know.
No matter how hot your anger may be it cannot cook.
The flour tastes bitter to the mouse who has had enough.
Possession is nine-tenths of the game.
Having rain clouds is not the same as having rain..
You can correct a mistake.
Tongue may muddle up and say the truth.
If a tree afford you shade, don't cut it down. When the tree falls, the shade is gone.
The peacock hath fair feathers, but foul feet.
If not for religion, people would've killed each other.
Advising is often better than fighting.
If you have a good cellar at home don't go drinking at the tavern.
Poverty has no greater foe than bashfulness.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
Intelligence is in the head, not in the age.
What the young one begs for, the grown-up throws away.
The belly warm, the foot at rest.
He who looks for a friend without a fault will never find one.
If you didn't catch anything when fishing, then a crab is a fish.
If a man plants melons he will reap melons; if he sows beans, he will reap beans.
In affect you can break even an elm.
Fools build houses, wise men buy them.
When you fall behind, you eat dust.
Failure is the mother of success.
Three things that can't be taught: generosity, poetry and a singing voice.
The more furrows the more corn.
Anger cannot stand without a strong hand.
The mouth which eats does not talk.
The fat woman gives the sweetest ride.
The golden ass passes everywhere.
Money lent, an enemy made.
Though you don't believe in other gods, you believe in the god of thunder; though you don't believe in medicine generally, you believe in laxatives.
No matter how generous you are, you don't give your wife away.
To have two eyes is cause for pride.
It's better to be a big frog in a little pond than a little frog in a big pond.
Why would a pool that doesn't have water need so many frogs?
The beggar's wallet has no bottom.
The one who knows the way to the cemetery carries the tail end of the coffin.
Who stays quiet agrees.
A melon forced off its vine is not sweet.
A friend will wipe away sweat but not blood.
Mistaking the reflection of a bow in a cup for a snake.
A running horse needs no spur.
One short step lengthens life.
To every cow its calf; to every book its copy.
Each man must ride the road of his own fate.
All returns – everything comes back.
If you can not find peace within yourself, it is useless to look elsewhere.
Not even the five fingers of our hands are alike.
Urge the horse close to the turning-post.
Don't build the sty until the litter comes.
If you cut down the trees you will find the wolf.
Habit becomes second nature.
Visitors' footfalls are like medicine; they heal the sick.
Life is short and time is swift.
One cannot scoop up the ocean with a sea shell.
Eagles fly alone.
Silence is golden.
Not all brave words become deeds.
It is better to be the head of a chicken than the rear of an ox.
Seven sets of ewers, but no dinner nor lunch.
Mad love--I for you, and you for another.
Do not fear going forward slowly; fear only to stand still.
War is sweet to him who does not go to it.
He who works has no time to earn money.
Half a house is half a hell.
Against the beastly human being even the Gods are powerless.
Desire of glory is the last garment that even wise men put off.
The only thing that was missing at the rich man's funeral was mourners.
It is best to bind up the finger before it is cut.
Don't throw the handle after the bill.
For a fly to die on an ulcer is not bad.
It is so unlikely to obtain anything from this person that even a smidgen is a win.
You cannot turn blood into water.
When flatterers meet the devil goes to dinner.
Drink the wine, but not drunk by it.
Men are blind in their own case.
You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs.
Time waits for no one.
Excess of delight palls the appetite.
Better a lie that soothes than a truth that hurts.
One must either be the hammer or the anvil.
Empty barrel rumbles the most.
It's too late to fatten a cow on the market day.
Death and taxes may be hard to beat.
Rather talk alone than with a mean companion.
The rich eat kebab, the poor inhale smoke.
The bread eaten, the company departs.
Shod in the cradle, bair-foot in the Stubble.
As ass does not hit himself twice against the same stone.
Never boast -- you might meet someone who knew you as a child.
Boasting begins where wisdom stops.
Borrowed bread lies heavy on the stomach.
A young man idle, an old man needy.
There grows not the herb, which can protect against the power of death.
The bird is known by his note, the man by his words.
Our caravan is our family, and the world is our family.
Funeral sermon, lying sermon.
Push the stone to the top of the mountain.
An easy shepherd makes the wolf void wool.
Without knowing a way thoroughly at day time, never attempt to pass it at night.
One will take someone to the spring and bring them back thirsty.
The good ways are many. There are many right ways of doing things. All roads lead to Rome.
Love brooks no delay.
Your value is set by your worth.
Measure three times before you cut once.
A friend cannot be known in prosperity nor an enemy be hidden in adversity.
The wood has ears, the field has eyes.
Your wife's eyes are in your purse.
A small woman always seems newly married.
Take with you an onion to the funeral.
A man has often cut a rod to beat himself.
Brain is better than brawn.
To the devil with so many masters, said the toad to the harrow.
A resourceful man knows to avoid a disadvantageous situation close at hand.
Ane beats the bush, and anither grips the bird.
Lordships changes manners.
To go as fast as a friar that is invited to dinner.
Foreign bread is good for your son.
May your journey be free of incident.
Nothing is more elegant than ready money!
He that is drowning shouts though he be not heard.
Give a dog an ill name, and you may as well hang him.
Better to lose the anchor than the whole ship.
That's terrible when intelligence goes and the head stays.
Better half an egg than empty shells.
He who runs from the white ant may stumble upon the stinging ant.
It is easy for someone to talk about fasting when he has a full belly.
Fortune goes like a wheel.
He said devil, but meant you.
It is ill catching hares with drums.
Never let your feet run faster than your shoes.
A useless watch dog barks but stays far away.
Success has more than one father.
No man can play the fool so well as the wise man.
Who wants to makes his friend his enemy should loan him some money.
He is a fool who thinks that another does not think.
A good son returns home and tells what happens.
The diamond fallen into the dunghill is not the less precious for it.
Italian devotion and German fasting have no meaning.
Praise youth and it will prosper.
One beats one's breast who does not beat one's child.
Presents more burdensome than profitable.
No cliff is so tall it cannot be climbed.
"Now the marriage begins," says the woman who has been beaten with thorns.
O eggs, never fight with stones.
If everyone's misfortunes were seen by all in broad daylight, in the end people would take back their own.
The worst behaved students turn out to be the most pious preachers.
Be careful of what you say as it can hurt more than a knife.
Everything is small at the beginning and then grows; except trouble, which is big at the beginning and still grows.
All the smiths . . . can't mend a broken egg.
A piece of land is not a little thing.
If the sieve is not shaken, his flour will not drop from it.
Who begs for the sake of mischief steals from the God.
The noblemen's quarrels can be read on the backs of the peasants.
He is a great simpleton who starves himself to feed another.
Long ere you cut Falkland-wood with a Pen-knife.
Voice of one, voice of none.
You don't have to kill the chicken to get eggs.
'tis too late to spare when the cask is bare.
No woman is ugly if she is well dressed.
Only a dupe checks the depth of the water with both feet.
Beautiful things are never as beautiful as those that are pleasing.
Misfortune sits on a rich man's lap but grabs the throat of the pauper.
Young courage and old caution are a strong pair.
It is no longer good enough to cry peace, we must act peace, live peace and live in peace.
I, the adhesive grass, will stick fast to you.
Only a heart can find the way to another heart.
What the lion cannot, the fox can.
Frog in a coconut shell.
Music has charms to soothe the savage beast.
Welcome Vice, if it comest alone.
Death is blind.
Muddy water won't do for a mirror.
Fire does not burn in a jar.
Green as grass.
Judge of the statue of Hercules by the size of the foot.
A hasty work is seldom good.
A timely "no” beats a hasty "yes.”.
One guest loves not another guest; the master of the house dislikes both.
A termite can do nothing to a stone save lick it.
Beauty fades like a flower.
Under a bad cloak there is a good tippler.
After the rain the grass will grow; after wine, conversation.
From listening comes wisdom and from speaking, repentance.
If heaven made him, earth can find some use for him.
Too many arguments destroyed marriage negotiations.
The man who wanted to milk the male goat failed.
The letter enters with blood.
Send a fool to close the shutters and he'll close them all over town.
Getting money is like digging with a needle. Spending it is like water soaking into the sand.
One word beforehand is better than ten afterwards.
Talk is cheap but it takes money to buy whiskey.
Old and new millet seeds end up in the same mill.
If sweetness be excessive, it is no longer sweetness.
Looking for a donkey on its very back.
The knot tied by a wiseman cannot be undone by a fool.
A man who after his dying speech doesn't die, bears the same guilt.
If you don't want to be found out, take the appearance of the people around you.
A lazy man will remember he has not planted when is neighbour is harvesting.
A flow will have an ebb.
What is bad luck for one man is good luck for another.
Business neglected is business lost.
One searches for someone else's donkey while singing songs.
When thine enemy retreateth, make him a golden bridge.
Let the first urge pass, wait for the second.
If there had been no poverty in europe, then the white man would not have come and spread his clothes in africa.
It is a disgrace to be praised by those who deserve no praise.
Heal yourself first before you heal others.
Life is not separate from death. It only looks that way.
If you refuse to be made straight when you are green, you will not be made straight when you are dry.
The anvil does not fear a good sledge-hammer.
The Aboriginal Sunrise Ceremonies are very special to our people. It starts when the sky is black, beautiful black. When the sun's yellow circle arrives, it turns the sky red. This is why the Aboriginal flag is half red, half black with a yellow circle in the middle. At the Sunrise Ceremony, I meditate and ask the Great Spirit for direction. My hands fill with electricity. I touch you and you feel it, too. I heal people this way. My Grandmother did that, too. I learned all about that when I was a young fellow. Umbarra, the Black Duck, is the special totem of our tribe, the Yuin. We learn to respect the elders who hand on the Law. The elders guard the Law and the Law guards the people. This is the Law that comes from the mountain. The mountain teaches the dreaming.
Deviate an inch, lose a thousand miles.
There is truth in vine.
If youth but had the knowledge and old age the strength.
The lazy servant takes eight steps to avoid one.
If there are no clouds there will be no rain.
Knowledge without wisdom is like water without sand.
A 1000 miles journey starts with a single step.
Unable to keep yourself, you are keeping dogs.
A bad sheerer never had a good sickle.
The future is for those who know how to wait.
Don't fly till your wings are feathered.
One needs more than one indication to draw conclusions.
Water does harm but wine makes you sing.
The balance in doing its office knows neither gold nor lead.
It is thou must honour the place, not the place thee.
As great birds die the eggs rot.
Meat that the cat brings in never gets to your plate.
The house rat who goes swimming with his friend the lizard will die from cold.
A good tree can lodge ten thousand birds.
Faith begins where reason stops.
When every one minds his own business the work is done.
As the wound inflames the finger, so the thought inflames the mind.
Skill and assurance form an invincible combination.
you are heaven on earth,
Labour has a bitter root, but a sweet taste.
If he keeps on imitating everybody the monkey will one day cut his own throat.
He who does not love their national language is worse than a putrid fish.
By the claw you may know the lion.
When life hands you lemons, make lemonade.
A noh every mango got maggige.
A chief should not create a new law when he is angry.
Flesh of man – mends itself.
To seek without finding, equals waste of time.
Never borrow, never lend if you wish to keep a friend.
We're fools whether we dance or not, so we might as well dance.
As proud as a peacock.
He who is frightened of a sparrow will never sow barley.
Once you've used enough seasoning; using more will spoil the dish.
He will embark in litigation, even if a donkey has bitten his dog.
The soul to God, and the body to the earth.
Better own a trifle than want a great deal.
The ass that trespasses on a stranger's premises will leave them laden with wood.
One for sorrow, two for joy, three for a girl, four for a boy, five for silver, six for gold, and seven for a secret that must never be told.
One dog growls to see another go into the kitchen.
He who has two masters to serve must lie to one of them.
Postpone not a good action.
The key to all action lies in belief.
Things may be traded in the city but it is the fisherman who brings in the food supply.
Work is half of health.
Timid dogs bark most.
A drowning man takes hold of his own hair.
Bustle is not industry.
Fair words don't fill the belly.
The ruling passion strong in death.
Sit quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself.
The morning goes thinking, the day turning head.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the woods.
Seek that which may be found.
He who inherits a hill must climb it.
You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
Speaking silence is better than senseless speech.
Better a small fish than an empty dish.
A gowk at yule'll no be bright at beltane.
Who serves the public, serves no one.
If you take big paces you leave big spaces.
It is better to be entirely without a book than to believe it entirely.
No choice is ever wholly unregretted, each brings more joy and more sorrow than we can foresee.
It's not the gay coat that makes the gentleman.
All men are not cast in the same mold.
Mony aunts, mony emes, mony kin, but few friends.
An eager dog often gets a torn skin.
The heart that loves is always young.
Who holds his peace and gathers stones, will find a time to throw them.
One man uses his tongue, another his teeth.
When two enemies blow one horn, the third will have to suffer for it.
It is to please herself that the cat purrs.
It's a bad sign when the sick person tosses and turns in bed.
Old donkeys do not learn languages.
If you buy what you don't need, you steal from yourself.
Time does not wait for anyone.
To give is honour, to love is grief.
No man deserves punishment for his thoughts.
Let your love be like drizzle: it comes softly, but still swells the river.
To destroy the bones of an elephant, strike them against other elephant bones.
Chop, and you will have splinters.
What's the good of a sun-dial in the shade?
The bee, from her industry in the summer, eats honey all the winter.
Save your fowl before it stops flapping.
The elephant's head is no load for a child.
Like father, like son.
Better a friend at court than gold on the finger.
He who does not speak the whole truth is a traitor to truth.
To understand a stammerer, you ought to stammer yourself.
You must take the fat with the lean.
If you would resemble the vulture, look out for a carcase. [Wait for dead men's shoes.].
In the strong following wind. (Getting drunk)
It is easy to see the fly on the other person's nose, while ignoring the horse on your own.
Don't crow till you're out of the woods.
Until death there is no knowing what may befal.
The river passed the saint forgotten.
The shoemaker's shoes have no heels.
Slow and sure.
If the hyena eats the sick man, he will eat the whole one.
He who is outside his door already has the hard part of his journey behind him.
I see by my daughter's face when the devil lays hold of my son-in-law.
Truth is the club that knocks down and kills everybody.
Cold strengthens you more than hunger.
He said: "Woe!" and the boat sank with him. He said: "Alas!" and the rudder broke. The young man said: "Ah god!" and the boat reached its destination.
Old men, when they marry young women, make much of death.
It's better to be the pot than the lid.
Seven women in their right senses are surpassed by a mad man.
Who has once deceived will ever be a suspect.
Lightning never strikes the same place twice.
The chest contains a beehive full of pride.
If you give bad food to your stomach, it drums for you to dance.
A great city. a great desert.
If a frog leaves the swamp for the mountains, it means it is in danger.
He fishes in troubled waters.
Poor men do penance for rich men's sins.
The longest day soon comes to an end.
A person's stripes are inside; those of a tiger are outside.
What you can do today do not leave off for tomorrow.
A wealthy man can err with impunity.
The person going home is not stopped by the dusk.
He avoided the fly and swallowed the spider.
When your son grows up, become his brother.
Poverty is not a sin, it's worse than that.
I gave him a staff for his support and he uses it to break my head.
Curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
Perfect Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance. (a.k.a The six P's)
Although dying of thirst, i drink not the water of a stolen fountain.
He who does not advance recedes.
The young pig must often suffer for what the old sow did.
From listening comes wisdom, and from speaking repentance.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
A golden key can open any door.
Dine with arrogance, sleep with shame.
If thou canst not see the bottom, wade not.
The more one looks, the less one sees.
If to-day will not, to-morrow may.
Not even the lord of light can turn back time, or undo what has been done.
It is no fun to guard a house with two doors.
There is not so much comfort in having children as there is sorrow in parting with them.
Fools build houses and wise men live in them.
She is good who is close to the fire and does not burn.
When there are two fires in one room, only one will smoke.
A name doesn't make a man worse, if the man doesn't make his name worse.
Send charcoal in a snow storm.
How we apples swim! said the horse-turd.
A mother will understand what her dumb son says.
Luck has much for many, but enough for no one.
If you can't join them, beat them.
Better an honest slap in the face than an insincere kiss.
You are not a man until you have plowed a field.
A calf is not found under an ox.
Crooked iron may be straightened with a hammer.
Death is like a dress that, at some point or another, everyone has to wear.
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage.
You can't free a fish from water.
If a Jew cannot be a shoemaker, he will dream of being a professor.
Lazy people are always eager to be doing something.
To begin is to be half done.
A donkey that carries a lot of books is not necessarily learned.
Harp not for ever on the same string.
Life is just like a dream-but don't wake me.
If you fill your head with pride you will lack space for wisdom.
When the mantis hunts the locust, he forgets the shrike that's hunting him.
To climb a tree to catch a fish is talking much and doing nothing.
In fact, we are often able to do a task because we think we are able to do it.
Home is home, as the Devil said when he found himself in the Court of Session.
I've seen your top, i've seen your bottom also.
You'll not find a thrush in a hawk's nest.
When the cockroach decides to make the cock its friend it must be ready to end up in the cock's stomach.
A man never grows up until his father dies.
If you don't have a dog, you hunt with a cat.
Once we meet and talk, we are brothers and sisters.
If a woman gets rich she changes into a man.
Eyes are afraid, but hands are doing the job.
It is hasty speed that doesn't succeed.
Do not run after a cart that will not take you.
No one is a prophet in his own land.
In order to find evildoers, every human being is given a name.
Water makes mud, wine cleans the blood.
When women increase in wealth, they are silent. But when they fall into trouble, the whole world gets to know.
Greet everyone cordially when you don't know who your in-laws are going to be.
He who has money to throw away, let him employ workmen, and not stand by.
A man profits more by the sight of an idiot than by the orations of the learned.
If you wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes. If you don't wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes.
A calm spirit will enable a man to survive even a six-month jail sentence.
No-one is ever poor who has the sight of his eyes and the use of his feet.
The hat does not make the gentleman nor the cap a lout.
Overseas, a cow costs a quarter of kopeck, but it will cost a rouble to ship it here.
A childless old lady is obsessed with sea shells.
Don't kick a sleeping dog.
Learn good conduct at all times and in love of it you will grow ever stronger.
A daily guest is a great thief in the kitchen.
Better to bit your tongue than biting your words.
Enjoy yourself, for there is nothing in the world we can call our own.
God keep you from "It is too late.”.
If thou thyself canst do it, attend no other's help or hand.
Bannocks are better than nae bread.
As the old cock crows, so does the young.
If lying were a capital crime, the hangman would work overtime.
The best word is the unspoken word.
You can't feed your donkey only when you need to ride it.
He who dies of over eating doesn't wither.
The body of joy is not so big.
The earth offers you a grave everywhere.
This is not Kashan where the heap comes with the coolies.
He who wipes the child's nose, means to kiss the mother's cheek.
Let no shovel-beaked bird ever enter your yard.
It is eith till, that the awn self will.
He whose house is made out of glass, shouldn't throw stones at people.
Envy doesn't enter an empty house.
When there is a big tree, small ones climb on its back to reach the sun.
Workmen are easier found than masters.
Among those who stand, do not sit; among those who sit, do not stand. Among those who laugh, do not weep; among those who weep, do not laugh.
Advisers get away with it. They never have to pay the penalty for their advice.
Measure is treasure.
Prayer is food for the soul.
Courtesy is cumbersome to them that ken it not.
If the family is together, the soul is in the right place.
To want the last from the pot.
There's many a knave concealed under a surplice.
If you play with a cat, you must not mind her scratch.
No summer, but has its winter.
The tongue is more to be feared than the sword.
Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest.
If you want to keep friends don't loan them any money.
Each to his own and God watching over everyone.
Look after your property, and you won't accuse your neighbour of being a thief.
A cheerful wife is a joy of life.
He who has come through the fire will fade in the sun.
If we remember the quarrels and mistakes of yesterday, we will never have someone to party together with us.
Two dogs can kill a lion.
A bad agreement is better than a good lawsuit.
You cannot eat a fried fish by flipping it.
Milk for a child, meat for a man, beer for the old.
Don't estimate the value of a badger skin before catching the badger.
One cannot always find a fish under a willow.
Grief pent up will burst the heart.
Starlings are lean because they go in flocks.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
Work well done makes pleasure more fun.
One is equally indebted to one's teacher and to God.
One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning.
Without wood the fire would die.
The devil is not so black as he is painted.
He that marries a widow will have a dead man's head often thrown in his dish.
He that corrects not youth, controls not age.
If you want to drink clear water from a well be there first.
When the head acheth, all the body is the worse.
Love itself is calm; turbulence arrives from individuals.
Modesty is the beauty of women.
Industry keeps the body healthy.
Give a clown your foot, and he'll take your hand.
Cultivate a heart of love that knows no danger.
Better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.
Women believe the strangest of lies as long as they are wrapped up in praise.
I will not change a cottage in possession for a kingdom in reversion.
A lonely person is at home everywhere.
It is not easy to steal where the landlord is a thief.
Good looking and good luck don't always walk the same road.
The silence resulting from absence has destroyed many a friendship.
You must judge a maiden at the kneading trough, and not in a dance.
The generous man enriches himself by giving; the miser hoards himself poor.
A wise head makes a close mouth.
A thousand curses never tore a shirt.
A man with a cough cannot conceal himself.
God looks to clean hands, not to full ones.
Don't look for more honor than your learning merits.
As a dog returns to his vomit, so a fool returns to his folly.
There is no evil without goodness.
Always use spurs with a horse, whether it's mean or gentle.
Those who had some shame are dead.
When he was fifteen the devil was a good looking boy.
If you think you have someone eating out of your hands, it is a good idea to count your fingers.
A strong bull is seen by it's scars.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
If you are lucky, even your ox will calve.
To be slim does not mean having been pared.
Nothing is so burdensome as a secret.
For a tint thing care not.
Strength comes from union.
A neighbor's hen looks as big as a goose, and his wife as young as a girl.
The half is better than the whole.
Old oxen like soft grass.
Women are like books: too much gilding makes men suspicious that the binding is the most important part.
A fisherman can recognize another fisherman from afar.
Dark ground gives good bread; white ground is quickly tired.
When God gives hard bread he gives sharp teeth.
A real friend is one who takes the hand of his friend in times of distress and helplessness.
Men grow old, pearls grow yellow, there is no cure for it.
Proof rather than argument.
The rainbow would be even more beautiful if the show was not for free.
Despite the beauty of the moon, sun and stars, the sky also has a threatening thunder and striking lightening.
He who renounces his ancestrey is like a slave.
No one is bound to do impossibilities.
Like priest, like people.
Busy like a bull in the spring.
The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass.
Choose a friend with the eyes of an old man, and a horse with the eyes of a young one.
Empty houses are full of noises.
Foot firm till death.
Mischief has swift wings.
Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the devil.
God is on the side of the strongest battalions. (Kin 1955, p. 255)
They are not all cooks who carry long knives.
Don't pass judgement on a work of art if you don't know how to create it.
You have to suffer in the name of fashion.
If you throw money away with your hands, you will seek it later with your feet.
Every man is master in his own house.
To flee and to run are not all one.
Your greatest hope is your greatest fear.
So long as you don't step on a snail's tail, he won't get up and bite you.
Your ignorance is your worst enemy.
Stealing may bring profit, but hanging costs far more.
He who dresses ion others' clothes will be undressed on the highway.
He that loves law will soon get his fill of it.
A lazy thief is better than a lazy servant.
Work for nought makes folks dead lazy.
The good is the enemy of the best.
If you see a man riding a wooden stick, say to him "Good health to your horse".
One man's death is another man's bread.
Family before Friendship.
In times of emergency the devil eats flies.
If a woman hears that something unusual is going on in heaven, she would find a ladder to go and look.
The big thieves hang the little ones.
The wolf is well pleased with the kick of a sheep.
No one likes justice brought home to his own door.
Not everything can be seen, but everything exists.
The distance between heaven and earth is no greater than one thought.
Custom becomes law.custom in infancy becomes nature in old age.
If there be no remedy, why worry?
Who ever does not respect confidence will never find happiness in their path.
Friends tie their purse with a cobweb thread.
The quickest way to double yur money is to fold it over and put back it in yur pocket.
A dog will not howl if you beat him with a bone. (1659)
Hope dies last of all.
Higher than the heavens.
He who can sit upon a stone and feed himself should not move.
Count no man successful until he is dead.
Wise men learn by other men's mistakes, fools by their own.
Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great ones by the purse.
Who lives on the score has shame evermore.
He who talks without thinking dies without getting sick.
Evil words fill some with astonishment.
When the ducks are quacking the frogs take it as a warning.
Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.
He is a fool who makes his physician his heir.
Better an honest enemy than a false friend.
He who want a rose must respect the thorn.
If they say there is a wedding in the sky, women would try to put up a ladder.
It's better to be silent and thought a fool, than to speak up and remove all doubt.
Do not kick away the canoe which helped you to cross the river.
The young one always knows faster in the dark.
Drink and sing: the dark night is ahead of us.
The brave person regards dying as just going home.
Treat your superior as a father, your equal as a brother, and your inferior as a son.
If you're in a hole, stop digging.
Death does not knock on the door.
Better saucht with little aucht, nor care with many cow.
The existence of the sea means the existence of pirates.
Let us go, where fate directs us.
Let an ill man lie in thy straw, and he looks to be thy heir.
What's the use of putting honey in an ass's mouth.
What the church doesn't take, the exchequer carries away.
Soon fire, soon ashes.
He that would be healthy must wear his winter clothes in summer.
Teeth are all friends among each other.
The one-eyed man thanks God only when he sees a man blind in both eyes.
The scent of every flower is short lived.
Who created thunder does not fear it.
Better a blind horse than an empty halter.
Every excuse is good, if it works.
Friday pretexts for not fasting.
God created the beard on himself first.
An ox and an ass don't yoke well to the same plough.
The Hump is straightened only by the grave.
A brave man dies but once, a coward many times.
Beware of the geese when the fox preaches.
What the abbot of Bamba cannot eat he gives away for the good of his soul.
If one is eloquent in speech
Hate not at the first harm.
The late comer is ill lodged.
The devil never grants long leases.
Sometimes people who live in glass houses throw stones because their windows are painted.
Less advice and more hands.
Cough is the old man's laughter.
Where there is smoke, there is fire.
It's better to light a candle than curse the darkness.
A light cinch is best.
The cloth of shame does not warm and if it does, it does so only briefly.
Far waters cannot quench near fires.
An evil gain is equal to a loss.
Nothing seems expensive on credit.
Where a horse of a turk passes the grass will not grow again.
An undecided man is the worst disaster of the village.
Anger is the only thing to put off until tomorrow.
Take a hair of the dog that has bitten you.
He that would make a golden gate, must bring a nail to it daily.
The axe forgets. The tree remembers.
Pluck not a courtesy in the bud.
There are black sheep in every flock.
If speaking is silver, then listening is gold.
The court is most merciful when the accused is most rich.
Willows are weak but they bind other wood.
Spring is when you feel like whistling even with a shoe full of slush.
Curse your wife at evening, sleep alone at night.
One hundred alcoholics are better than one gambler.
It rained on the mountaintop, but it was the valley below that got flooded.
A fat woman warms the night.
If you take too long to choose, you will end up with the leftovers.
If you want to know the value of money, try borrowing some.
Everybody knows good counsel except him who has need of it.
The smoke caused by meat which is roasted does not cause pain in the eyes of a hungry person.
Let every sheep hang by his own shank.
What starts with a condition ends with out any oppression.
Keep women far away from song, because it is a summons to adultery.
Two pipers cannot get on in one tavern.
A husband wants to have a healthy wife; a brother wants to have a rich sister.
God writes straight with crooked lines.
One should choose one's bedfellow whilst it is daylight.
Parting is such sweet sorrow.
If you saw what the river carried, you would never drink the water.
You have lent and not recovered.
It was blacksmith's guilt, but the gypsy was hanged.
A given excuse that was not asked for implies guilt.
Buy cheap, sell dearǃ (Thomas Lodge)
Ye canna see the wood for trees.
A Presbyterian minister had a son who was made Archdeacon of Ossery; when this was told to his father, he said, 'If my son will be a knave, I am glad that he will be an archknave.'
What you want to keep a secret, tell no one.
Don't be like the shadow: a constant companion, yet not a comrade.
You can't catch two frogs with one hand.
The account is correct, but not a sixpense appears.
The ideal is a four year old dog, an eight year old horse, an eighteen year old woman and a twenty eight year old man.
A stupid friend is a greater plague than a wise enemy.
You can find your mouth even in the dark.
Christmas has been talked of so long that it has come at last.
Though you possess prudence, old man, do not despise advice.
It's better to fall from a tree and a break your back than to fall in love and break your heart.
If your brother is rich it doesn't mean you're rich.
Holy souls! One of them gathers and many eat.
One hand washes the other and both of them wash the face.
Where poverty comes in, love goes out.
Over high, over laigh.
Speed will get you nowhere if you are headed in the wrong direction.
If a counsel were a good thing, it wouldn't be given, but sold.
You cannot exchange peace for war.
A fool may sometimes speak to the purpose.
An intelligent foe is better than a stupid friend.
Whether eating or scratching, the main thing is to start.
Tongue double brings trouble.
When storms roll in, dogs make beds.
It is better to start weaving your fishing nets than merely coveting fish at the water.
A leader who does not take advice is not a leader.
If there were no fault, there would be no pardon.
You can outdistance that which is running after you, but not what is running inside you.
He's a wise man that leads passion by the bridle.
Smoke of the neighbours renders you blind.
Win a bet of your friend, and drink it on the spot.
If you want a celebration provide the means.
Let him who feels he has a dirty nose wipe it.
You know who the good seamen are when the storm comes.
He is as poor as job.
Spring will not come with one flower.
Luck in the sky and brains in the ground.
When your finger is in pain, your sight is not lazy.
If he has seven blind daughters, he will marry them in an hour.
The hunchback does not see his own hump, but he sees his brother's.
It is better to feed one cat than many mice.
Good company on the road is the shortest cut.
From snow, whether baked or boiled, you will get nothing but water.
The miser destroys what he collected.
A fool may be known by six things anger, without cause speech, without profit change, without progress inquiry, without object putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends.
Nobility of soul is more honourable than nobility of birth.
The pure, upon seeing it pure, call it pure.
Speak kindly or refrain you from talking.
Smooth seas do not make skillful sailors.
Drink coffee while it's hot enough to make you swear but let the chocolate cool.
A man who develops himself is born twice.
A good paymaster is keeper of other men's purses.
Who loves with his heart sees from a distance.
A bellyful is one of meat, drink, or sorrow.
It's unworthy to dig a new pit to fill up an old one.
It's not the aroma of the soup that tells you whether it's sweet or not, but it's the tongue's taste.
It was probably a waste of time anyway.
A single penny fairly got is worth a thousand that are not.
One cannot wash a blackamoor white.
Even a clock that does not work is right twice a day.
Inquire seven times then doubt a person.
There is danger when a dog has once tasted flesh.
Do not ask the old – ask the experienced.
Sunday clears away the rust of the whole week. (Joseph Addison)
A small cottage wherein laughter lives is worth more than a castle full of tears.
If you have ploughed with oxen, married a widow and never said a bad word - surely you go to heaven.
A man's grave is by the roadside.
A good mule can be sold in his own territory.
There are three bad neighbours: great rivers, great lords, and great roads.
With a friendly word you get farther than with a club.
Everything is formed by habit, even praying.
Ill news is too often true.
Evils follow each other.
As long as you happen to put your hand in a container full of pickles, might as well dip your whole arm in the container.
Earth belongs to the brave but heaven to those who deserve it.
Idle people have the least leisure.
When in doubt, leave it out.
Where there is great love there is great pain.
You need not find a shelter for an old ox.
Revenge is a dish that should be eaten cold.
A mother's wrath does not survive the night.
He who pursues an innocent chicken always stumbles.
Dry thunder that tears the sky doesn't make you forget the storm of yesterday.
Old cows like young grass.
An accidental meeting is more pleasant than a planned one.
Where there is gossip, there will be arguing.
Time and the hour are not to be tied with a rope.
Never wrestle with a strong man nor bring a rich man to court.
A virgin's heart is a dark forest.
A prophet is not without honor save in his own country.
Follow the road and you will reach an inn.
He does not live in this world that can skin a grindstone.
Better a free bird than a king in captivity.
Only when the last tree has withered, and the last fish caught, and the last river been poisoned, will we realize we cannot eat money.
When a pig has eaten its full, it pushes over its trough.
Better be proficient in one art than a smatterer in a thousand.
Brevity is pleasing.
The antics of a market buffoon provide laughter, but nobody prays that his child becomes the market buffoon.
What you do yourself is well done.
It's a bad bridge that is narrower than the stream.
When the apple gets ripe, it's likely to fall.
You must howl with the wolves when you are among them.
The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church.
Has there ever been a day without an evening?
Haste makes waste and waste makes want.
Learning is there for every man.
Love and faith are seen in works.
It is easy to tempt a frog to the river.
A woman that always laughs is everybody's wife; a man that is always laughing is an idiot.
There are finer fish in the sea than have ever been caught.
Don't hang your hat where you cant reach it.
O! my brother Flip the pot on its mouth, the daughters turn into their mums.
Politics is a rotten egg; if broken, it stinks.
A needle is sharp only at one end.
The man has neither sense nor reason who leaves a young wife at home.
The wine is not known by the hoops.
A fat kitchen makes a lean will.
The weakness of an enemy forms part of our own strength.
For a chaste woman God is enough.
We need not friends if Providence smiles on us.
A dead elephant cannot be covered by a lotus leaf.
The diseases of the mind are either caused or cured by the power of music.
So long as I can keep a secret it is my prisoner.
The bad plowman quarrels with his oxen.
For age and want save while you may: no morning sun lasts a whole day.
A sparrow in hand is worth a pheasant that flieth by.
If you have never seen evil, look closely at yourself some time.
Promises must not fill the place of gifts.
If you fall in a river hang on to a snake.
Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
Malta would be a nice place, if every knight were a tree.
A short sword for a brave man.
Clap a carle on the culs, and he will shit in your louf.
A book is a good friend when it lays bare the errors of the past.
It's better to tell your money where to go than to ask where it went.
He who will not take cheap advice, will have to buy dear repentance.
Hidden joy is an extinguished candle.
If the heart is right, the head cannot be very far wrong.
Every one has a fool in his sleeve.
Where there are many, nothing goes wrong.
He who is no friend to the good cause is no friend of mine.
To separate the men from the boys.
Who lives together with a pig will end up eating shit.
A horse that will not carry a saddle must have no oats.
It is written in sacred scripture: where grass is growing you don't need fertilizer.
Death is the last doctor.
He who feeds the child must be allowed to lick his fingers.
Fire, quoth the fox, when he pissed on the ice.
Few are like father, no one is like mother.
If patience hides something, anger won't search and get.
The dogs bark but the caravan passes on.
It is cruel to refer to those things which cause sorrow.
Mothers raise their daughters and let their sons grow up.
Beware of a silent dog and still water.
A man without a book is blind.
A pretty basket does not prevent worries.
When in good health we easily give good advice to the sick.
An aged steed confined to the stable still aspires after the glory of galloping a thousand miles.
Sell not the bear's skin before you have caught him.
Read like the devil reads the Bible.
One knife will not cut another knife; one cheat will not cheat another cheat.
Many cooks put too much salt in the soup, food.
He that does you an ill turn will ne'er forgie you.
If you want to be happy, love the one who loves you, because it's a waste of time to love someone who doesn't love you.
Don't put new wine into old bottles.
A woman who wants a child doesn't sleep in her clothes.
Happiness is like crystal - when it shines the most, it soon cracks.
The memory of a benefit vanisheth, but the remembrance of an injury sticketh fast in the heart.
Offer a clown your finger, and he'll take your fist.
It is the raised stick that makes the dog obey.
A roan horse and a black can travel equally far in a day's journey.
The applause of the people is a blast of air.
Wolves have howled at the moon for centuries, yet it is still there.
Before you score, you first must have a goal.
He who cannot pay with his purse must pay with his hide.
No man grieves long unless by his own fault.
Nicknames are used in case the Devil comes asking for you.
A friend won with a feather can be lost with a straw.
Boys avoid the bees that stung 'em.
A lizard without one leg cannot move up a tree.
When you stay with a careless person, you end up becoming careless just like him.
He who thinks too much about every step he takes will stay on one leg all his life.
Fine feathers make find birds.
Both are the better for their mutual friendship.
A child's service is little, yet he is no little fool that despises it.
Nothing on earth is greedier than the eye.
Not much can be done when everyone is giving orders.
He who can give has many a good neighbour.
A teem purse makes a bleat merchant.
A wife is frightened of her first husband and a husband is frightened of his second wife.
The gods assist the industrious.
No mill, no meal.
The higher the bamboo, the more it can be bent.
A toad does not jump around in the daytime, unless something is after its life.
April and May make meal for the whole year.
Cast not forth the old water while the new come in.
The fourth fever kills the old and cures the young.
He who swears is a liar.
He who throws a stone at his relatives will never prosper, give the kinsman his due.
The finest edge is made with the blunt whetstone.
It's easy to halve the potato where there's love.
A leopard is chasing us, and you are asking me, "Is it a male or a female?"
Listen to all, 'plucking a feather from every passing goose,' but follow no one absolutely.
Easier to bend the body than the will.
Those who arrive to the spring first, drink the purest water.
Whatever the man in authority said, it was not pleasant.
It is Austria's destiny to rule the world.
A church without a leader is prey for the devil.
Patience brings roses.
Go with the powerful and people will kneel before you.
A heart as big as a house.
An englishman will burn his bed to catch a flea.
Ya bringing ya dumplings to carry way ma rice.
Who knows most, knows least.
Geese are plucked as long as they have any feathers.
A good dog does not block the road.
A fault confessed is half forgiven.
The bacon of paradise for the married man that does not repent.
In a fight the rich man tries to save his face, the poor man his coat.
Plenty makes daintiness.
He who chews two bones at the same time will surely bite his tongue.
Success ruins a fool.
It's hard to dance in chains.
If you give the loan of your britches, don't cut off the buttons.
A mouse's vision is an inch long.
Will is power.
He who has not traveled widely thinks that his mother is the best cook.
A close mouth and open eyes never did any one harm.
Honesty is na pride.
If you tie a frog on the leg a snake will follow you.
If we pay for the music we will take part in the dance.
It is a bad bargain, where both are losers.
Don't stop a donkey that isn't yours.
If you choose to make friendship with a pig you must be prepared to live in the mad.
If yu de shit, an' si certain people/person a come; sidong inna it.
It's always good to have an old man at a little boy's side.
Rebellious thoughts are like an abandoned house overtaken by robbers.
Who came back from the grave and told the story?
Three, helping one another, bear the burden of six.
It ends quickly like the hen's singing.
Set your expense according to your trade.
Sweet is the smell from your own ass.
Thirst is the end of drinking and sorrow is the end of drunkenness.
The shortest answer is doing.
If the qivon is cold, the blood is hot.
A deadly sin can't be concealed.
When one dog barks for nothing, all other dogs bark in earnest.
The frog does not tire in the water.
Two rats cannot share the same hole.
A fence makes love more keen.
When a thing is done, make the best of it.
Hungry flies sting sore.
The snail is as sune at its rest as the swallow.
The lover who gives you her body but not her heart is generous with thornless roses.
The cow steps on the calf, but she does not hate it.
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
Even the strongest the eagle cannot soar hirer than the stars.
The monk preached against stealing, and had the good in his larder.
When the music stops, a deaf person continues to dance.
There are plenty of other fishes in the sea.
I am being carried on great wings across the sky.
Both legs in the stocks or only one, 'tis all the same.
If you can't distinguish how to whistle a festival alarm from a warning alarm, then better not alarm and let s/he who knows the difference to do the alarming.
Declare your line of conduct without reticence.
The test of merit is success.
Being happy in one's home is better than being a chief.
Who pounds the water in the mortar, will get wet with the drops and will end up tired.
The beggar may sing before the thief.
What is put in a basket before going to the market won't be the same thing returned in the basket.
The more the fox is cursed, the more prey he catches.
The Yangtse never runs backwards; man recaptures not his youth.
Better a little fire to warm us than a big one to burn us.
Wait a minute! wait a minute! harms the stomach.
Quiet people are well able to look after themselves.
If the dog leads the man, the man is blind. If the man leads the dog, the man is married.
Education is the best provision for old age.
No sooner have you spoken than what you have said becomes the property of another.
The shadow of death is just dawning of life.
The great night that provides, the great day that neglects.
Fire, fire, many pots on. and one pea in them all.
Better a drop of wisdom than an ocean of gold.
God promised me a fur coat, and I am already sweating.
If passion drives, let reason hold the reins.
Made no more bones.
Foolhardiness made the rat try to jump over the fireplace.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
Living off the fat of the land.
Gossiping and lying go hand in hand.
The strongest person among men is not he who fights everyone but is he who controls is anger.
Live for a century ? learn for a century.
Time is like a dagger; if you don't cut with it, it cuts you. Go ahead and cut. Be quick before it cuts you.
No man looks for another in a sack, unless he has been there him himself.
One penny in the pot makes more noise than when it is full.
What goes around comes around.
Name not a rope in his house that hanged himself.
Only he knows how to command, who knows the one who is commanding.
When a badman dies, he either goes to hell or to the Pecos.
You're bound to leave some grain when you harvest.
Silence is the door of consent.
When you go to buy, use your eyes, not your ears.
Don't talk too much, because your ignorance is greater than your knowledge.
The foolish sayings of a rich man pass for wise ones.
As numerous as the leaves of the oak, or the waves which wash the island.
The fire that burns a royal palace only enhances its splendor.
The rooster said, "I shall cry but whether the sun rises God knows."
Who by himself can do anything, do not wait for others to do.
Ye hae been smelling the bung.
No matter how much you feed a wolf, he will always return to the forest.
We're responsible for our own misfortune.
Six feet of earth will make us all equal.
The guest is always the prisoner of the host.
Any man can be a father, but it takes a special person to be a dad.
The early bird gets the worm.
The entrance is stopped with a spider's web.
It is the kindness, and not the harshness, in the headmaster's voice that pushes tough boys to cry.
What is the good of a sundial in the shade?
Mouth of honey, heart of gall.
Better a noble death than a wretched life.
It is bad baking without flour and water.
A spacious ground is the right place to demonstrate one's skill in wrestling.
Many people who have gold in the house are looking for copper outside.
Take the bull by the horns and the man at his word.
Friends tie their purses with a spider's web.
Shame is past the shad of your haire.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
The horizon will not disappear as you run towards it.
May it always be spring with you.
First to the mill will first grind.
The best mirror is an old friend.
Due to the presence of fools wise people stand out.
Happy people never count hours as they pass.
A gold branch with a jade leaf.
The tail of the cow watches to the right and left.
The end of a feast is better than the beginning of a fight.
Many have been ruined by buying good pennyworths.
Those who live near the water look into the mountains. They don't look in their own direction.
Don't speak unless you can improve on the silence.
Deep rivers move with silent majesty, shallow brooks are noisy.
A sick mind cannot endure any harshness.
Always ask a higher price, because you can always lower it.
Might is always right.
From Nanking to Beijing, buyers are never as smart as the sellers.
When you stand with the blessings of your mother and God, it matters not who stands against you.
A crow won't bite a crow.
If there were no elephant in the jungle, the buffalo would be a great animal.
The person who pours water to other is the last one to drink.
Brains are not to be found in the beard.
All those men have their price. (Robert Walpole)
Who buys wants a hundred eyes, who sells need have but one.
Promises, like pie crust, are made to be broken.
The musician who is paid in advance does not play so well.
After the game, the King and the pawn go into the same box.
The righteous are bold as a lion.
One swallow doesn't make summer.
If one hand were the other they would both want to be clean.
A brand burns him who stirs it up.
Life is a temporary stop, death is the journey home.
If you find the residents of a place worshipping a donkey, bring the beast some grass.
Avoid suspicion: when you're walking through your neighbor's melon patch, don't tie your shoe.
The man is a river, the woman a lake.
Save a thief from the gallows and he will help to hang you.
Thunder cannot make a deaf person hear.
You kick against the goad.
A man can sleep on every hurt but his own.
"It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare, but because we do not dare, things are difficult." (Seneca, Letter to Lucilius, letter 104, section 26, line 5)
Beware of the dog himself, his shadow does not bite.
An old ox makes a straight furrow.
The cat is a lion to the mouse.
If you know what a dollar is worth, try to borrow it.
The miser and the open-handed spend the same in long run.
The only more dear to you than your child, is your child's child.
Hell and the courtroom are always open.
Don't keep a dog and bark yourself.
True peace between nations will only happen when there is true peace within people's souls.
A man may speir the gate to Rome.
Sleep with a woman and she will make sure you wake up.
Even if the nightingale is in a gold cage, she still dreams of returning to the forest.
Neither money nor the devil can remain in peace.
Poor people's words go many to a sack-full.
You cannot say A without saying B.
Stop talking. Drink.
Not every wood will make wooden shoes.
We die. That may be the meaning of life. But we do language. That may be the measure of our lives.
A spiritual leader is able to see the past, present and the future.
Escaping from the smoke he falls into the fire.
The world has not promised anything to anybody.
Double charges rive cannons.
Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip.
He looks for a needle in a bundle of hay.
The highest art is the art of living an ordinary life in an extraordinary manner.
While keeping a tiger from the front door, the wolf comes in at the back.
When a man raises his voice at home, know that he started lowering if elsewhere.
He who wants to travel far takes care of his beast.
Makes the bed soft, yet hard to sleep.
Big words seldom go with good deeds.
A good heart breaks bad fortune.
It is an irresponsible adult that creates enmity because of a disagreement that arises between two children.
The fool's excuse is bigger than the mistake he made.
Never speak untruth and falsity knowingly.
In the calmest waters swim the ugliest fish.
Talk well of your friends and of your enemies say nothing.
Once in each man's life fortune smiles.
The weight of the burden is known only by he who caries it.
Don't cut off the monkey's tail before it is dead.
A dainty stomach beggars the purse.
All the sheep are not for the wolf.
If you can't go over, you must go under.
Never draw your dirk when a blow will do it.
Paper is patient.
If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem.
Every one to his taste.
Loving a woman who scorns you is like licking honey from a thorn.
A dram of discretion is worth a pound of wisdom.
When the heart acts, the body is its slave.
Half an hour in a spring evening is worth a thousand gold pieces.
First secure an independent income, then practice virtue.
Death is closer than the shirt.
Do not do strange acts merely for the sake of astonishing your friends.
Not all the flowers of a tree produce fruit.
Rain, rain, go away, come again another day.
Man's mind is a watch that needs winding daily.
Who by fleeing might save himself, may again come before the hatch.
Crime leaves a trail like a water beetle; like a snail, it leaves its silver track; like a horse-mango, it leaves its smell.
One falsehood spoils a thousand truths.
A dancer will not become crippled for dancing calls for grace.
If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will spare yourself one hundred days of tears.
The fox is knowing, but more knowing he who catches him.
Don't try to get blood from a locust; God didn't put it in there.
The fingers have got pretty close to the thumb.
Nature is the true law.
Put an Irishman on the spit, and you can always get another Irishman to baste him.
Love is sweet captivity.
Only a fool fights in a burning house.
Much wisdom is lost in poor men's mouths.
If you want to blame the fox, then blame the hen too.
Be not idle, and you shall not be longing.
An unkept promise leads to a bad life.
One eats while another watches-that is how revolutions are begun.
Necessity turns lion into fox.
Never speak in a hurry.
Everyone is worth more than his neighbor and less than his son.
They who deserve honor, fail of it; and they who obtain it, do not deserve it.
Quick to borrow is always slow to pay.
The cat would eat fish, too, but it wouldn't jump into the ocean.
Play, women, and wine undo men laughing.
The flavour of health is given by an illness.
A poor workman always blames his tools.
What's all the fuss?" said the crane after the eel had slipped away. "I never liked fish anyway.
The hidden things of wisdom and a treasure that is not seen, what profit is in them both?
Judgment delayed is judgment avoided.
Wise men learn by others' harm.
There is no repentance after death.
A smooth sea never made a skillful mariner.
To favor the ill is to injure the good.
No matter how long the night, the day is sure to come.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
Conscience is as good as a thousand witnesses.
Trouts are not caught with dry breeches.
A gold ring does not cure a felon.
Still waters wash out banks.
Empty barrel mek de mos' noise.
In the report, of riches and goodness always bate one half.
Only the rich can afford compassion.
A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks, but a farmer dies of old age.
To marry once is a duty, twice a folly, and three times - madness.
Old age is a hospital that takes in all diseases.
Gifts break rocks.
The place where you are happy is better than the place you were born.
Leave aff as lang as the play's good.
The pitcher that goes often to the fountain leaves there either its handle or its spout.
He who has scalded himself once blows the next time.
If you are building something and a nail breaks, should you stop building altogether, or should you change the nail?
He that lippens to bon plows, his land will ly ley.
Age does not give you good sense, it only makes you go slowly.
The weather worsens on saint bartholomew's day.
If you go fishing and catch nothing, go to the henhouse and get eggs.
The frost hurts not weeds.
Whether the knife falls on the melon or the melon on the knife, the melon suffers.
Drink nothing without seeing it, sign nothing without reading it.
If you find your friend on the sofa at home with your wife, you had better sell the sofa.
You can't have two faces under one hat.
A river doesn't run straight because there was nobody to advise it.
Hea, will gar a deaf man hear.
Cut your losses and let your profits run.
A begun work is half ended.
Every wonder lasts three days.
Wha' ain't pass yuh ain't miss yuh.
The stone in the water does not know how hot the hill is, parched by the sun.
Who wanders all the moors will taste all the berries.
Got with the fife, spent with the drum.
If it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it's probably a duck.
He cries out before he is hurt.
Even a fool knows the glow of gold.
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance. (Strauss, 1998)
The early bird may catch the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese.
There is always a better man for every good man.
Do not look where you fell, but where you slipped.
If you would be rich in a year, you may be hanged in six months.
Optimism is a mania for saying all is well when one is in hell.
To ward off the boredom of life, eat snails in May and fish in August.
An obscure style is a blind mirror.
Whatever you do, think about it seven times.
They asked the female cat why her kittens were of different colors; she said she is embarrassed to say no.
Kill and thou wilt be killed, and he will be killed who kills thee.
A hungry belly hears nobody.
Changing priorities.
A fool may sometimes give a wise man counsel.
cockroach nebber so drunk he no crossy fowl-yard.
Save a thief from the gallows and he will cut your throat.
The fat is in the fire.
If speech is of silver, silence is golden.
More pure than a tear.
Ill gotten, ill spent.
When a rich man caresses a poor man, he's going to take advantage of him.
When among the crows, caw as the crows do.
The fly that bites the tortoise breaks its beak.
How come that when I lost my sheep and could not find it, I was questioned; but the hyena who was found with the sheepskin is not questioned.
All are not harpers, who hold the harp.
The wind sweeps the road clean.
In August the lambs are slaughtered.
Hunger goes in a straight line, desire turns in circles.
There is no point in showing the way to an old hare.
It's as difficult to win love as to wrap salt in pine needles.
The doorway to charity is difficult to open and difficult to close.
The dog will always attack the one with torn trousers.
When a durian tree is already ripe and sweet, many of the durians will fall to the ground.
Not the pain, but the shame.
Don't talk latin before the franciscans.
Whatever you have to do, do it quickly.
Do not try to fight a lion if you are not one yourself.
He was entrapped by the evening, it has cost him his marriage.
The sky is wide enough for two birds to fly without their wings touching.
Don't just cross a river–cross it bearing fire!.
You can't put new wine in old bottles.
The cripple will always find a stone to kick.
Life liveth not in living, but in liking.
Repentant tears wash out the stain of guilt.
All colours will agree in the dark. (Francis Bacon)
He started with nothing and still he has just his begging bag.
Much more than you have sown will grow in your garden.
To give jewels to a donkey is as stupid as giving a eunuch to a woman.
Where I make my living, there is my home.
Happy is the country which has no history.
Never spend time with people who don't respect you.
If we don't fight we remain equals, if we do fight then one of us wins.
The mother is she who catches the knife by the blade.
Politics is art of promises.
If hunger forces a farmer in a particular year to eat both his yam tubers and the seed-yams, the succeeding years would still be worse because he would have no yams to eat and none to plant.
A gem is not polished without rubbing, nor a man perfected without trials.
A worm cannot kill a fly.
To search for thorns in the milk.
Under a shabby cloak may be a smart drinker.
Your food is supposed to be your medicine and your medicine is supposed to be your food.
Light is light, though the blind man see it not.
The wolf is not afraid of the sheepdog, but he is of his chain.
Good is the delay which makes sure.
One occasion doesn't make the rule.
You never know what you can do till you try.
A short mass and a long dinner.
Drive the horse with oats, not with curses and oaths.
He should wear iron shone, that bides his neighbours deed.
A teacher is someone who ploughs with his tongue to fill his little bowl with rice.
Certainty is better than hope.
A bad man in Zion City is a good man in Chicago.
From the ditch to the water jump.
A mouse relies not solely on one hole.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
A priest that's made a pet of and a pig that's made a pet of are the two worst pets of all. However, all priests are different. And in our times some pigs are kept as pets.
A lying tongue had bereft him of life, and all without reason of right.
Springs, seas that were conquered
The fool has to do at last what the wise did at first.
To plough a straight furrow, never look back.
Where flies are eaten, eat them.
Words don't match with actions.
All cats are grey at night.
When a net is worn out, it is thrown away on the shore.
Soft words butter no turnips.
Call no man happy till he dies.
Every one has his master.
The miller has a fat pig, but I've no idea by whose grain it is fed.
It is never too late to learn.
Whenever there is profit to be made then think of honesty.
Children and the deaf are the punishment of God.
Had you known what bees eat, you would not have tasted the honey.
No needle is sharp at both ends.
The panther and the sheep never hunt together.
Medicine cures the man who is fated not to die.
The sky is big and the emperor is far away.
The beautiful is less what one sees than what one dreams.
The frog in his pond sneers at the ocean.
From evil, the less.
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned. You can't escape your destiny.
If the wife sins, the husband is not innocent.
Our real grave is not in the ground but in men's hearts.
He lives like the last day and even the evening of it.
Don't trouble a quiet snake.
As many heads as many wits.
Does a man not know when he has pepper in his eyes?
She can touch your lobes but never your latinum.
He who stops half way is only half in error.
If you have a tail of straw, then keep away from the fire.
The mountains are in labour, and bring forth a mouse.
He that takes the raven for his guide will light on carrion.
Don't tread on the tail of a sleeping snake.
The word of a powerful man is the truth.
It is mysterious if a baboon falls from a tree.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
Patience is a virtue.
Home affairs have their staff, which cannot be brandished by anyone but the head of the house.
It's a crime if you get caught.
If the mare jumps, the filly will jump higher.
When the mouth stumbles, it is worse than the foot.
Poured clear water on hither hands.
The best helmsmen stand on shore.
A person who picks something and decides to make it his own, ought to think how he would feel if he was the person who lost the property he picked.
Fair, good, rich, and wise, is a woman four stories high.
Might is right.
A good-looking man is pleasant to look at, but it is easier to live with an amusing one.
When the judge's mule dies, everyone goes to the funeral; when the judge himself dies, no one does.
Better a Dog faun nor bark on you.
It is one person in a street that kills a dog and the street is named a street of dog killers.
If you go to a rat's village and it is eating palm nuts, you eat some too.
A rooster does not sing on two roofs.
Even the rustling of leaves will alarm the hare.
If the cairn were not built, the magpie wouldn't have perched.
What you lose in the fire, you will find in the ashes.
To be without silver is better than to be without honor.
The most pleasant cruise is near the land; the most inviting walk near the sea.
If it hurts to spend your money, you will go hungry.
He who is a slave of truth is a free man.
Herring in the land, the doctor at a stand.
Killing a man to save the world, does not save the world.
The black soup is still ahead.
The wise man affirms little and doubt much.
Who is mighty? One who makes an enemy into a friend.
The craftsman has a bad roof.
The river's reputation ends where the sea begins.
You can't squeeze blood from a rock.
"No punishment without law.”.
He who wants to do a good jump must sometimes take a step back.
For a morning rain leave not your journey.
It is no good going to the river just wanting to catch a fish; you have to take a net as well.
Dig your well before you're thirsty.
One who keeps silent, endures.
Cross in a crowd and the crocodile won't eat you.
The clock ticks nowhere else the way it does at home.
If you are sad, act.
To claim is not to prove.
Only a knife can best tell a child when to leave it.
When one is prepared, difficulties do not come.
After the storm comes a calm.
Never criticize a man until you've walked a mile in his moccasins.
Happiness that lasts too long spoils the heart.
He that counts but his Host, counts twise.
Even foxes are caught.
We do no inherit the earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children.
Mercy resides in God; deeds are in men.
Youth is intoxication without wine; old age, wine without intoxication.
Why pay for the cow when the milk is free?
He who cannot help, may hinder.
Everybody's friend, nobody's friend.
Marriage teaches you to live alone.
When big bells ring, little ones are not heard.
It's better to eat a mushroom in freedom than to eat meat in slavery.
Old friends and old ways ought not to be disdained.
Old praise dies unless you feed it.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
God's help is nearer than the door.
The one who hasn't strength to pound yams pretends to drive away flies from the yams.
Soft water constantly striking the hard stone, wears it at last.
Who is born stupid will die stupid.
Cowboys are stronger than two red onions.
He who looks on know more of the game than he who plays.
In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty.
Don't stop the way of a bull or of a current of air.
Believe in women as in the weather in April.
Life is the biggest bargain. We get it for nothing.
A snake lies concealed in the grass.
When the brothers fight to the death, a stranger inherits their father's estate.
Since you have scolding me, I have counted a hundred and twenty holes in that nutmeg grater.
A penny saved is very grateful.
I have another tow on my rock.
Fat head, less brains.
A bargain is a bargain.
When a stiff-necked bull stands with its four legs planted firmly and refuses to move, you cannot make it go ahead only by pulling it by the reins and using your whip.
Better ice that melts than fire that extinguishes.
Fortune is like a wall that falls on those who lean on it.
A child does not die because the mother's breasts are dry.
When the explorer is ready, the guide will appear.
Noble and common blood is of the same color.
Good luck beats early rising.
Without debt without care.
Never give a sword to a fool or power to an unjust man.
Three things make a man rich: Earning and not spending, promising and not doing, buying and not selling.
It is discreditable to fly from a living enemy, or to abuse a dead one.
If you wait for the roasted liver to cool it will get cold in someone else's mouth.
An oak is not felled at one blow.
You cannot damage a wrecked whip.
Who hath no horse may ride on a staff.
Deep calls to deep. (Strauss 1994, p. 695)
You're correct, but the goat is mine.
And old hound bytes fair.
I am a judge of cresses, said the peasant, as he was eating hemlock.
Better to take an old husband than none.
Patience is the key of joy; but haste is the key to sorrow.
Wait for the cat to jump.
Rhue and time, grows both in ane garden.
A long skirt wraps around the leg, a long tongue wraps around the head.
Go to the square and ask advice; go home and do what you like.
A foolish fox is caught by one leg, but a wise one by all four.
Do not throw a stone at the mouse and break the precious vase.
When you are seized, hold on yourself.
He thought he could catch birds with his mouth.
A broken sleeve holdeth the arm back.
No day should pass without something being done.
If you are offered a bull, do not ask how much milk he will give.
The Blind hen, when it sees again, wants even to mount the cock.
When you see that someone is cutting your neighbor's beard, start wetting yours.
Man dat carry straw no fe fool wid fire.
She who dances with the chimney sweeper will eventually end up black.
When hunger comes through the door, love jumps out the window.
In the morning of life, work; in the mid day give council; in the evening, pray.
He defends the honour of the uniform.
Relatives are the worst friends, said the fox as the dogs took after him.
Hard words break no bones.
When a son gives to his father, they both weep.
Refers to people who are late in doing things.
An atheist is one point beyond the devil.
A tree that doesn't flower in April, won't flower at all.
Great needs grow from great possessions.
The lazy one stands up between one armchair and another.
Pot, your bottom is black. "Yours is blacker than me."
Trust in God upon good security.
There are three "too much" and three "too little" that can bring a fool down: too much spending and too little money; too much talking and too little knowledge; and too much boasting and too little earnings.
The human tongue is more poisonous than a bee's sting.
It is foolish for someone to seek credit for his ancestor's achievements.
Don't take rich people as examples.
Don't lean on your fellow men - theirs is an ever moving support.
Fools and knives require good handling.
Going slowly doesn't stop one arriving.
Throw dirt enough, and some will stick.
The priest loves his flock, but the lambs more than the wethers.
Ye maun spoil or ye spin.
The name of love's finance is divorce.
It is too late for a galloping horse to stop at a clip; it is useless for a sinking boat to be mended in the middle of a river.
Good table, bad will.
No choice is also a choice.
Wrath often consumes what God gives husbands.
It's not a sin to be a Savonian, but it's a big shame.
God did not create haste.
When bribery enters through the door, faith goes out through the chimney.
Love is full of busy fear.
Better the child weeps than your wife.
Empty sacks will never stand upright.
When the blind man carries the lame man, both go forward.
He who comes for the inheritance is often made to pay for the funeral.
Fair hair may have foul roots.
The moon gives us light but no heat.
Virtuous for ten years is still not enough; evil for one day is too much already.
An iron rod can be ground down to become a needle.
The old wife, if she does not serve for a pot, serves for a cover.
Stealing would be a nice thing, if thieves were hanged by the girdle.
It's sweet to drink but bitter to pay for it.
Too many cooks oversalt the porridge.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
Malice itself drinks the largest part of its own poison. [Malitia ipsa maximam partem veneni sui bibit].
God made things straight, the devil came and twisted them.
You can't drive donkeys without a stick, nor horses without spurs.
Dogs don't love people, they love the place where they are fed.
He who does not teach his son a trade teaches him to steal.
The saint is suspicious of too many sacrifices.
Nothing beneath the sun is lasting.
What the colt learns in youth his continues in old age.
Today is today who says tommorrow is a liar.
Dine with a friend but do not do business with him.
A penny saved is a penny earned, but sometimes a penny is better spent than saved.
Fear an ignorant man more than a lion.
The act itself does not constitute a crime, unless the intent be criminal.
Nobody so wise but has a little folly to spare.
Plan your life as though you were going to live forever, but live today as if you were going to die tomorrow.
"Tavisupleba” is the title of the national anthem of Georgia.
The devil hides himself in details.
If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean.
Patience is poultice for all wounds.
Two wives, two pots of poison.
Corner a dog in a dead-end street and it will turn and bite.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than gold given at the wrong time.
Even the best song becomes tiresome if heard too often.
As you have spent the candle, spend the inch.
You must not throw stones into your neighbor's garden.
A frog hopped onto a wall and cried, ‘I can see kashmir!'
Love is just like rice - plant it elsewhere and it grows.
There are no bad ships at all, there are bad captains.
Excellent people are honored wherever they go.
The one who is mistaken is the one who does nothing.
Good comes from far away; evil is close at hand.
No matter how much you feed a lizard it cannot become a crocodile.
The pride of the poor does not endure.
He who mixes himself with the draff will be eaten by the swine.
Beyond mountains, there are more mountains.
If you continually harvest without fertilizing the land will soon be exhausted and you'll have bad years.
It is a good Goose that drops ay.
You can lean on a bamboo stick, but not on a rope.
Bind the seck ere it be full.
The blind one asked the naked guy to lead him on.
Vultures arrive at the place where the goat is slaughtered.
The healthful man can give counsel to the sick.
Generosity does not make a man poorer.
Buttered bread always falls dry side up.
Chip neber fly far from de block.
The secret to success is to walk forward.
Book stands by itself and experience stands by itself.
What you build easily will fall quickly.
It's better for people to wait for rice, than rice for people.
The more sins you confess, the more books you will sell.
Those who live together cannot hide their behinds from each other.
For poor people small coin.
Drops join to make a stream; ears combine to make a crop.
Slop your hogs before you feed your children.
As soon as a man gets new trousers, he thinks about a new wife.
A monkey that pilfers from a widow's larder must not be admonished.
You learn to limp if you live with cripples.
It's stinking praise comes oot o' ane's own mouth.
What the elders see while sitting the young ones standing on their toes won't see.
Having two ears and one tongue, we should listen twice as much as we speak.
The baby nursed by its grandmother can never be corrected.
u people i can not find mush proverbs about hands why if u have added i pls send a mail.
A happy man does not hear the clock strike.
We learn by teaching.
To know another is not to know that person's face, but to know that person's heart.
Of two ills choose the least.
A friend's frown is better than a fool's smile.
If you don't want a tail of a monkey to touch you then don't attend the monkey dance.
Don't borrow another's nose to breathe with.
He who wants to be a dragon must eat many little snakes.
To eat and to itch is in the beginning.
You can't fly with one wing.
When the kitchenmaids are together the roast burns.
"O Canada” is the title of the national anthem of Canada.
A toad too would like to crack nuts, but he has no teeth.
Do not protect yourself with a fence, but rather by your friends.
You can't teach grandma to suck eggs.
Pride in prosperity turns to misery in adversity.
Unwrapping a gift wraps up enmity.
It is the path of the needle that the thread is accustomed to follow.
Where the dike is lowest the water first runs over.
What you give to others bears fruit for yourself.
A small axe is not sufficient to cut down a large tree.
Good judgement comes from experience, and experience comes from poor judgement.
A feet can be shorter while an inch can be longer.
Empty vessels make the most sound.
Everywhere is fine, but best at home.
Conscience is the nest where all good is hatched.
When a large vessel has opened a way it is easy for a small one to follow.
Confusion is a chicken with shattered eyes.
Never spend your money before you have it.
The door to virtue is heavy and hard to open.
The value of a person is measured by the happiness he gave to others in life.
Dropping a stitch.
Who lives foolishly as a youth, wails in old age.
Women and wine, game and deceit, Make the wealth small and the wants great.
Praise a fair day in the evening.
Don't drown the man who taught you to swim.
A pebble and a diamond are alike to a blind man.
Good things, many devils.
He who can take advice is sometimes superior to those who give it.
To put the horse behind the cart.
When the tale of bricks is doubled, then Moses makes his appearance.
Lift a stone only to drop on your own feet.
Any ground is good enough to be buried in.
Like an ostrich: cannot fly and cannot bear burdens.
A penny spared is a penny saved.
A fool will pair an ox with an elephant.
A guest and a fish after three days are poison.
A woman who delivers a baby in the market square has nothing to hide.
Whatever you teach, be brief; what is quickly said the mind readily receives and faithfully retains, while everything superfluous runs over as from a full container. Who knows much says least.
Stretch your legs according to your clothes.
Who wills the end, wills the means.
The eye of the master will do more than both his hands.
Many bring their clothes to church rather than themselves.
If the farmer is poor then so is the whole country.
As delicate as a flower.
Have faith - God calls forth life even from eggs.
Sport as you may while the master's away.
The devil often lurks behind the cross.
If you want apples, you have to shake the trees.
Mother, what is marrying? Spinning, bearing children, and crying, daughter.
The wolf does that in the course of the week which hinders him from going to mass on Sunday.
When I rest, I rust.
Not all words require an answer.
The grave only calls those death loves.
Until your fortieth it is better to eat than to drink; afterwards it is vice versa.
Prosperity gets followers, but adversity distinguishes them.
God protect us from the Sicilian cop especially if he's from Palermo.
A lot of donkeys means a lot of hay.
To get silk from a stone.
The white man lives in the castle; when he dies, he lies in the ground.
Even too much praise is a burden.
It is the smooth water that runs deepest.
A drink precedes a story.
Men can bear all things except good days.
Throw not the child out with the bath.
Trust in Allah, but tie your camel first.
Better be kind at home than burn incense in a far place.
Forethought is easy, repentance hard.
He is the best gentleman, who is the son of his own deserts.
A woman has many mouths.
The tyrant is only the slave turned inside out.
Though you seat the frog on a golden stool, he'll soon jump off again into the pool.
He buys honey dear who has to lick it off thorns.
She wipes the plate with the cat's tail.
Thou wilt get no more of the cat, but the skin.
Where there's no might there's no right.
If you want to lean on a tree, first make sure it can hold you.
Time spent laughing is time spent with the kami [gods].
When tide is high, it ebbs.
It is not spring until you can plant your foot upon twelve daisies.
Where the cattle stand together, the lion lies down hungry.
More people drown in glasses than in rivers.
Now the fairytale is over.
Even if a log lies in the water for a long time, it does not become a crocodile.
The awkward person breaks the board in riding on the surf.
Imitate the sundial's ways, count only the pleasant days.
My chest locked, my soul safe.
Stuff today and starve tomorrow.
Do not reprimand the alien, do not praise your own.
Do not bathe if there is no water.
He who spends more than he should Shall not have to spend when he would.
The fist is the law, said Ville Savola.
A beard lathered is half shaved.
A pipe of kif in the morning gives one more strength than a 100 camels in the courtyard.
A man may be his own ruin.
Two raindrops do not make a pool.
If you cannot become rich, be the neighbor of a rich man.
When you return from a trip, bring back something for your family - even if it is only a stone.
When your neighbor's horse falls into a pit, you should not rejoice at it, for your own child may fall into it too.
A dying man discovers the honesty with which he was born.
A cup must be bitter that a smile will not sweeten.
A moneyless man goes fast through the market.
We have no son, and yet are giving him a name.
The horse that arrives early gets good drinking water.
If you can't beat em, join em.
A new fowl always has string around its legs.
Look at the mother, marry the daughter.
He who lets another sit on his shoulder will soon have him on his head.
Better wrong with the many than right with the few.
Feed a cold, starve a fever.
He shouts snake and frog at somebody.
Who steals a calf, steals a cow.
If the hare is your enemy, admit that he can run fast.
When your neighbor's house is on fire, carry water to your own.
The lion won't turn on a barking puppy.
Give to the poor, lend to God.
Virtue our leader, fortune our companion.
Beauty is no longer amiable than while virtue adorns it.
Who will in time present pleasure refrain, shall in time to come the more pleasure obtain.
A good devil is as equal as to a bad god.
Who is insulted for a long time, finally loses his patience.
It doesn't take time to change one's destiny.
Take an ox by his horn, a man by his word.
The temple E-babbar, which Me-silim had built, was destroyed by Nanni, whose posterity had been cut off.
Pigs might fly lest they had wings.
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.
You cannot have the bacon and the pig at the same time.
True happiness consists in making others happy.
One's foul smelling does not sicken one self but merely disguts one.
You have left the sheep with the wolf for safe custody.
Lovely women, lovely quarrels.
If you really want honesty, then don't ask questions you don't really want the answer to.
Sense doesn't come before age.
The raggy colt often made a powerful horse.
To have saved one human life is worth more than to build a paGoda with seven stories.
He who at thirty has no brains, will never purchase an estate.
More unlucky than dogs in church.
What greater crime than loss of time?
Do not spread your corn to dry at an enemy's door.
Before you milk a cow tie it up.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
A stupid has his heart in the mouth, his mouth in the heart.
Who goes more bare than the shoemaker's wife and the smith's mare.
After hardship comes relief.
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving against the Pope.
Cold hands, warm heart.
Give a loaf, and beg a shive.
Slander piles itself before the door of a widow.
All my goods are of silver and gold, even my copper kettle, says the boaster.
If you do not know how to fish, do not stir up the water.
Humour, to a man, is like a feather pillow. It is filled with what is easy to get but gives great comfort.
The tongue weighs practically nothing, but so few people can hold it.
To-day for money, to-morrow for nothing.
He that sows shall also reap.
The bravery of a lion doesn't protect it from the spear of a hunter.
He who does kind deeds becomes rich.
The corruption of the best is the worst of all.
The man of your own trade is your enemy.
The only good thing that comes from the east is the sun.
No use crying at the market, sell your fur coat and drink the money.
With wealth one wins a woman.
Learn good manners from those who don't have them.
He left us and we rejoiced; then an even more unbearable person came.
The means were wanting, not the will.
A husband with one eye rather than with a son.
A thief is a thief, whether he steals a diamond or a cucumber.
Money is a good servant, but an evil master.
Appetite comes with eating.
Lang fasting hains nae meat.
The body pays for a slip of the foot, and gold pays for a slip of the tongue.
Throw the baby out with the bath water.
Need makes the old wife trot.
Who takes an eel by the tail or a woman by her word, grasp as he will, holds nothing fast.
A man's shirt does not change the color of his skin.
To act in anger is like tying up a ship in a storm.
It is the calm and silent water that drowns a man.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
The mills of the gods grind slowly but they grind finely.
Honey was not made for the mouth of the ass.
Beware of a man of one book.
The larger a man's roof, the more snow it collects.
You can't jest an enemy into a friend, but you can jest a friend into an enemy.
Bonie silver is soon spendit.
When you are serv'd a' the geese are water'd.
If you are going into the wood -- don't leave your axe at home.
A small spark makes a great fire.
Everyone is glad to see a knave caught in his own trap.
A story without an author is not worth listening to.
If you really have to sin, then choose a sin that you enjoy.
I am a gentleman and you are a gentleman; who, then, should look after the pigs?
What shall I say when it is better to say nothing?
The cow does not know the value of her tail till she has lost it.
It is hard to steal where the host himself is a thief.
If you put a silk dress on a goat, he is a goat still.
In a piranha infested river, monkeys drink water using a straw.
A hobbling cat is better than a fast horse when rats swarm the palace.
Don't make an oven of your cap or a garden of your belly.
Fish's child knows how to swim.
If you have nothing to lose, you can try anything.
Justice begins at home.
Money talks, although the dog may bark.
When a man is in a sack, he must get out at the mouth or at the bottom.
It's hard to make a choice between two blind dogs.
You can take a horse to water, but you can not make him drink.
Wide lugs an a short tongue is best.
You can't trust that a job will be done properly unless you do it yourself.
If you be a jester, keep your wit till you have use for it.
He who leaves the game, loses.
You can't teach old dogs to sit.
He that does ill never wants for excuses.
A solitary man is either a beast or an angel.
A good name is a rich inheritance.
A word is enough to the wise.
There is no bitter crust to a hungry person.
Envious persons never compliment, they only swallow.
The dictionary is the only place where success comes before work.
If God were not forgiving, heaven would be empty.
Build with silver and cover with gold.
Better play a small game than to stand out.
How good to be forward, but how bad to be too forward.
Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles.
It's an ill wind that blows no good.
As chicken is not a bird, woman is not a human being.
There is often a barb behind a kiss.
Pots take turns to sit on the fire.
Sweep around your own doorstep first.
The intemperate die young, and rarely en joy old age.
Measure thrice before you cut once.
Error can't be defended by error.
The egg teaches the chicken how to breed.
If someone throws stones at you, throw back bread.
Take a man at his word, an ox by the horns.
News don't lack a carrier.
A good cock will crow on every dungheap.
Truth should not always be revealed.
Poor though in the midst of wealth.
Chastise the good and he will mend, chastise the bad and he will grow worse.
Clear accounts and thick chocolate.
Invite him as not to antagonize him, shove him off as not to let him eat.
If the mule doesn't go to the burden, then the burden will come to the mule.
Fattening frog for snake.
If you spit laying down it will only come back in your mouth.
He who knows not and knows not that he knows not is a fool. Shun him. He who knows not and knows that he knows not is a child. Teach him. He who knows and knows not that he knows is asleep. Wake him. He who knows and knows that he knows is a wise man. Follow him.
Do not build the sty before the litter comes.
Only birds of the same clan or species play together on the same tree.
The saddest dog sometimes wags its tail.
Only child, dear child.
A praying pirate is definitely a sign of danger.
Better a leg broken than the neck.
You must knock a long while against an alder-bush before you get a swarm of bees out of it.
He who dreams for too long will become like his shadow.
God promises a safe landing, but not a calm passage.
He who remains in the mill grinds, not he who goes to and fro.
Without other people's companionship, even paradise would be an unlikable place.
Our parents taught us to speak and the world taught us to be silent.
A borrowed coat does not keep one warm.
Merit consists in action.
As you sow, so you reap.
Two false men to one traitor.
Even small fish, are fish.
In the end, the well being of the pono, will be in the hands of the commoner.
In time, even a bear can be taught to dance.
A dog that barks much is never a good hunter.
The older buck gets, the harder become its horns.
True strength lies in gentleness.
The child who is given everything he asks for usually won't succeed in life.
Let the favour be repaid to him who repays a favour.
The silent man is most trusted.
Don't refuse a wing to the one who gave you the chicken.
If a rich man eats a snake people say, "This is wisdom!" If a poor man eats a snake people say, "This is folly!"
You may go as far as pepper grows.
No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
Action without thought is like shooting without aim.
The brave eat the soup, the timid die of hunger.
In the land of the cripple everyone thinks he walks straight.
The lap of its owner is security enough for a cat.
Being ignorant of law is no excuse.
A brave man is scared of a lion three times: first when he sees the tracks; second when he hears the first roar; and third when they are face to face.
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
Just wait, frost, the summer will come!
A thing that is firmly fixed cannot be dislodged except with much trouble.
Snapping curs never want sore ears.
The spouse of a woman is a man, the spouse of a man is his livelihood.
Quebecois Proverbs.
The devil makes his Christmas pies of lawyers' tongues and clerk's fingers.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
Conversation is food for the soul.
A crime eats its own child.
Fate and free-will both play an equal role in destinies.
Extravagant offers are a kind of denial.
Never judge a book by its cover.
Today me, tomorrow you.
A cat with gloves never catches mice.
He must gape wide who would gape against an oven.
If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; but if he kills, the earth hides it.
One bad general is better than two good ones.
It is the voyage not the ship that matters.
It is a sad heart that never rejoices.
The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door but live in different cells.
People who do not mend things first will never produce something.
He who is waiting for someone else's bowl often dines late.
Words are the leaves of the tree of language, of which, if some fall away, a new succession takes their place.
No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow.
You must live cool some time, even if you'll beg the rest of your life.
A crucible for silver and a furnace for gold, but Allah tests the heart.
There's no smoke without fire.
There is no honor in poverty.
None are deceived but they that confide.
Do not allow sins to get beyond creeping.
Tasty is the fish on someone else's dish.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
Who has, let him thereof take heed; love wanes, misfortune comes with speed.
A beggar talked to a picture, but picture answered nothing.
If heaven above lets fall a plum, open your mouth.
Charity looks at the need, not at the cause.
Ilk a man as he loves, let him send to the Cooks.
The first drink with water, the second without water, the third like water.
Spend not, where you may save; spare not, where you must spend.
When the thief is seen [stealing], he says he is joking; but when the thief is not seen, he steals.
When the sun is on azilonu, it's meal time.
It is no use cutting a stick when the fight is over.
What is it to be a gentleman? Firstly it is to be thankful and secondly to complain.
He that hath many irons in the fire, some of them will cool.
To be silent is golden, to speak is silvern.
Virginity is noted only in its absence.
Make not thy tail broader than thy wings. [Keep not too many attendants.].
The fear of war is worse than war itself.
On the gallows, the first night is the worst.
Where there is a frog, the snake is not far away.
Of big words and feathers may go to the pound.
A man is judged by his deeds, not by his words.
They agree like cats and dogs.
He who holds a ladder is as bad as the thief.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
All we can hold in our cold dead hands is what we have given away.
If a job's worth doing, it's worth doing well.
By what servant is his master better loved than by his dog?
Like the gardener's dog, that neither eats cabbages himself, nor lets anybody else.
No call alligator long mouth till you pass him.
Honey is sweet, but don't lick it off a briar.
You can't make a good shaft of a pig's tail.
It is easier to milk a cow that stands still.
Neither the baskets of the farmer nor the baskets of the abbey.
Rust eats up iron.
It's easy to get lost in thought if it's not familiar territory to you.
A blind man will not thank you for a looking-glass.
Those who judge before they know the facts will learn to shed tears.
It is nothing, they are only killing my husband.
A saint that cannot cure anyone has few disciples.
A woman for a general, and the soldiers will be women.
To him who gives you a pig you may well give a rasher.
Who has travelled a lot has seen a lot.
He that deals in dirt has aye foul fingers.
The war horses are born on the frontiers.
No dew ever competed with the sun.
The impatient person eats goat; the one who hesitates eats beef.
Don't empty the baby out with the bath water.
A little courtesy will go a long way.
He that buyeth magistracy will seek justice.
Life is too short to do stupid things.
Quiet water wears down a mountain.
Use the chicken for broth and the pullet for its meat.
Chickens have come home to roost.
When the sculptor is dead his statues ask him for a soul.
They sowed "if only" and "if found", and wind and waste sprang up.
If you add to the truth, you take something away from it.
To believe a thing impossible is to make it so.
Fine words are not enough for the empty stomach, it needs bread...
Tis a silly sheep that confesses to the wolf.
Trust allah, but tie up your camel.
It is a lonesome washing without a man's shirt in it.
When there is a misunderstanding between the left leg and right leg the entire body falls down.
Don't trust those who frequently smile.
Before I wein, and now I wat.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
One who tries to hide with a dog, a child, a goat, or a person with a cold, will not remain hidden.
After Easter, there are no more prayers and no more lettuce.
Ran like having the bottom of the belly full of feet.
The right answer to a fool is silence.
We have not inherited this land from our ancestors; rather we have borrowed it from our children.
Bear wealth, poverty will bear itself.
Anyone can start a rumor, but none can stop one.
Man's life is like a drop of dew on a lea£.
Guard lest the eyes be bigger than the stomach.
Fire is not quenched with fire.
If you dip your arm into the picklepot let it be up to the elbow.
Entreaty and right do the deed.
He who waits shall live to see.
Literal meaning: The people's lord is their servant.
Good counsel never comes too late.
Don't use an axe to embroider.
Clever father, clever daughter; clever mother, clever son.
The night rinses what the day has soaped.
Flattery is sweet food for those who can swallow it.
Pay what you owe and you will know what you are worth.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
A herbalist that refuses to ask laymen what leaves he looks for in the bush, must have difficulties getting what he wants.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. - English, 17th century.
Jest so that it may not turn to earnest.
That was laid on with a trowel.
Pride breakfasted with plenty, dined with poverty, and supped with infamy.
Experience is a comb which fate gives to a man when his hair is all gone.
We all will die, but our tombs will differ.
Hope is the pillar of the world.
A housewife who complains that there is not enough foodstuff in the market should remember that if her husband adds to what is already available, there would be more for everyone.
Patience is bitter but its fruits are sweet.
Generosity which is dilatory is worth going to meet.
He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good.
Always taking out and never putting in, soon reaches the bottom.
A young doctor makes a humpy churchyard.
The bee without a sting collects no honey.
If you can kiss the mistress, never kiss the maid.
A henpecked husband gets no support during a lawsuit.
If you wait, there will come nectar - like fair weather.
It is the fear of offence that makes men swallow poison.
Cabbage for cabbage.
There is no cure for an unknown illness.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
Even a hair off the bear is serendipitous.
Jones, Tegwyn (1996). A Little Book of Welsh Proverbs. p.60.
Ingratitude sickens benevolence.
A large fire often comes from a small spark.
Excess of obligations may lose a friend.
Charity is not a bone you throw to a dog, but a bone you share with a dog.
Devils have more than twelve apostles.
Be straightforward in all your dealing and noble with strangers.
There is but one good mother-in-law and she is dead.
Even if gypsy children are dropped from the sky.
Common goods, no goods.
If you want to sweep the steps clean, start at the top.
A baby cannot be heard crying in his mother's womb.
You may call that your own which no one can take from you.
You're wasting your time trying to interest the old in new endeavors.
A losing trade, I assure you, sir; literature is a drug. (George Borrow)
Every bird flies with its own wings.
Working and working at it, iron can be pulverized.
Great fish feed on the lesser.
Love is blind, but marriage finds a cure.
The one who pulls a cart is urged on.
A broke merchant counted his small change.
You have little power over what's not yours.
Where there is a friend, one does not have to call, he will come of his own accord.
Ink on paper.
Home affairs are not to be carried on in the public square.
Have confidence, but beware in whom.
A new pot retains its first scent.
The good dog never gets a good bone.
A man with a loud laugh makes truth itself seem folly, Truth is great and will win out.
We notice faults of others and easily forget our own.
A man isn't dead until is buried.
Bravery without intelligence is not bravery.
Act like you are an idiot and everyone will respect you.
All are not cooks who carry long knives.
One beetle recognizes another.
This is, what we experience, this is to be liked.
Believe that you have it, and you will have it.
Who will eat the kernel of the nut must break the shell.
Whether you were gold or satin, you're the same acanthus-seller.
Stretch your feet according to your blanket.
Women, fortune, and gold, favor fools.
I'll take care of today, let God take care of tomorrow.
A crow a crow's eyes doesn't peck.
Dawn is the friend of the muses.
Even in the ashes there will be a few sparks.
A trick is clever only once.
A silent pig digs the deepest root.
When the tree dies, the grass underneath withers.
Hired horses make short miles.
Young cats will mouse, young apes will louse.
The person who admits ignorance shows it once; the one who tries to hide it shows it often.
The worst kind of poverty is to have many debts.
The heaviest burden is an empty pocket.
Singing birds don't build nests.
Quick and well seldom go together.
He has given the hen for the egg.
Even an elephant can slip.
The great folks and dogs know no relationship.
No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up.
The smaller the lizard the greater the hope of becoming a crocodile.
Lang tarrying taks a' the thanks awa'.
The sick man is the garden of the physicians.
Idle folks have the least leisure.
A home without a woman is like a barn without cattle.
Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.
Who tells the truth is never wrong.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
A mild sheep is suck by every lamb.
The seed of all evil is laziness.
Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do.
When the cage is ready the bird is flown.
Children are a poor man's wealth.
Small gains bring great wealth.
Counsel is irksome when the matter is past remedy.
Every man has a good wife and a bad trade.
To form a dog is the ruin of education.
Human blood is heavy; he who has shed it cannot run away.
A woman can raise you to heaven and can dump you in hell.
When it sees money, the flute will play itself.
Oh hyena, don't give me excuse to eat me.
The bride is too beautiful.
A good son-in-law is like the acquisition of a new son; a bad one is like the loss of your daughter.
Don't think there are no crocodiles because the water's calm.
It is far easier to spot faults in another than virtues in oneself.
A guilty conscience is a lively enemy.
More grows in a garden than the gardener sows there.
There is no remedy for what will be and who will die.
A puff of wind and popular praise weigh alike.
Deeds speak louder than words.
Snake at your feet – a stick at your hand.
Whatever I say, I will say it twice, and then I will repeat it again.
Promising is not giving, but serves to content fools.
One flower does not make a garland.
Sleep is the brother of Death.
Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bone.
The chained buffalo doesn't enjoy grazing.
A man without a wife is but half a man.
A man must suffer in silence.
Success has many friends.
The best go first, the bad remain to mend.
To rise at six, eat at ten, sup at six, go to bed at ten, makes a man live years ten times ten.
Do not make me kiss and you will not make me sin.
A shut mouth keeps me out of strife.
Two captains will sink the ship.
Useful trees are cut down first.
The snake that seduced Eve spoke Spanish.
No clock is more regular than the belly.
O! You sitting, may God protect you from the evils of the comers.
A small debt makes a man your debtor, a large one your enemy.
When a fire starts from the shrine, no precaution can be possible.
Ate and praised is better than ate and was silence.
As honest as a cat when the meat is out of reach.
Can a mouse fall in love with a cat?
Cunning men's cloaks sometimes fall.
Virginity can be lost in one night.
It's better to be known as a rascal than a fool.
The little bird that flaps its wings too much will spoil them.
Nonviolence is the supreme law of life.
As you began the dance you may pay the piper.
It is a surprise that the cock should hold a grudge against the pot, instead of the knife that killed it.
Beauty without virtue is a curse.
Weeds never die.
The white man never forgets Europe.
A dead mouse feels no cold.
Precaution said, Good friend, this counsel keep: strip not yourself until you're laid to sleep.
Counsel after action is like rain after harvest.
Death devours lambs as well as sheep.
The liar will only be trusted once.
It is the softness of the lime that is fatal to the bird.
Sitting is being crippled.
Love steals on us imperceptibly.
A barking dog was never a good biter.
Even vinegar is sweet when for freebie.
A knife does not fear thorns, a woman fears man.
A rickety chair will not long serve as a seat.
Constant company wears out its welcome.
Shame is ever a part of poverty.
Who digs a pit for others will fall in themselves.
Vodka is the aunt of wine.
When it rains, it pours.
Take heed you find not what you do not seek.
The house sweeper's buttock is never at one direction.
Sparrows should not dance with cranes, their legs are too short.
When a bald man dies the mourners give him curly hair as a present.
Looking for a pin in the ocean.
If you own two houses, it's raining in one of them.
The old cow forgets that she was once a calf.
As both a good horse and a bad horse heed the spur, so both a good woman and a bad woman need the stick.
Stroke your dog and he will steal eggs.
How shall the enemy of the bride speak well of the wedding?
Keep your shop and your shop will keep you.
New Lords, new Laws.
Difficulties relate only to necessity.
The bee has a sting but honey too.
Ye have nothing to do but suck and wag your tail.
If you aim your spear at two fish, both will escape.
Stupid solutions that succeed are still stupid solutions.
Words are silver, silence is gold.
When the water goes uphill, the frog sings AbuAta.
Before eating, always take time to thank the food.
Though the leopard is fierce, it does not devour its cubs.
The best spices are in small bags.
The heaviest baggage for a traveler is an empty wallet.
Praise the fine day in the evening.
A girl with a golden cradle doesn't remain long in her father's house.
It is not well for a man to pray cream and live skim milk.
Building the fence, when the cows are all stole.
Many meet the gods, but few salute them.
Better to die than to live on with a bad reputation.
Full of courtesy, full of craft.
Like king, like law; like law, like people.
The best way to see divine light is to put out your own candle.
In the presence of your neighbor don't praise your wife or his.
No wrong without a remedy.
He who does not know how to serve cannot know how to command.
Absence is a foe to love; out of sight out of mind.
You can't see the whole sky through a bamboo pole.
The child of a snake is a snake.
He who has not learned to share his blessings with others has not found the true path to enduring happiness.
If bad luck is asleep you must not awaken it.
A bachelor is never sent as a go-between.
He who would prosper in peace, must suffer in silence.
If everyone were allowed to take from the world all her heart desired, there would be nothing left.
The devil is fond of his own.
I know by mine own pot how others boil.
There is mingling in friendship when man can utter all his whole mind to another.
Christ doesn't pay every friday evening.
Aspire to the principle, behave with virtue, abide by benevolence, and immerse yourself in the arts.
To fish in troubled waters.
He who wants to tell the truth will always stand before closed doors.
Good counsel comes over night.
If you can't get people to listen to you any other way, tell them it's confidential.
When Want comes in at the door, Love flies out at the window.
The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree said he would praise himself if no one else did.
He who has no wife, is for thrashing her daily; but he that has one, takes care of her.
There are no small parts, only small actors.
If I know I will die tomorrow, I can still learn something tonight.
Acquaintance without patience is like a candle with no light.
Strength has nothing.
Much wit is lost in a poor man's purse.
If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging.
If you want a thing done, go. If not, send. The shortest answer is doing.
It is better to be born lucky than rich.
There is no one who became rich because he broke a holiday, and no one who gained weight because he broke a fast.
They did not find a fault in the rose, they said O! you are red checked.
With fortune on your side you can sow salt and harvest grass.
My shirt is nearer than my cloak.
Friendship likes distance.
Woe to him whose betrayer sits at his table.
A loan long continued usually confers ownership.
Like a Buddha met with in hell.
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
Much wisdom is smothered in a poor man's head.
Having come to the dance you will dance.
Goodness reaches further than badness.
Alacci, remove the bones and be left with the bother.
Make a silver bridge for a flying enemy.
Actions speak louder than words.
Think globally, act locally.
The elephant will reach to the roof of the house.
Hate less, love more,
Through thick and thin, both over Hill and Plain.
One [should] count chicks in autumn.
The envious man's face grows sharp and his eyes big.
Better late thrive then never.
Better cross-eyed than blind.
Never praise life in front of death, nor the beautiful day in front of night.
A mad parish, a mad priest.
When I had money everyone called me brother.
Proportion your expenses to what you have, not what you expect.
Protest long enough that you are right, and you will be wrong.
Need gars naked men run, and sorrow gars Websters spin.
A man's fortune must first be changed from within.
Two footsteps do not make a path.
Better walk unshackled in a green meadow, than be bound to a thorn-brush.
Не dances well to whom fortune pipes.
There's no worth to a story without an author.
How you run your life, that's how your clock will run.
A man can't challenge his spirit in a wrestling match.
Only heaven can see the back of a sparrow.
You may shut your doors against a thief, but not against a liar.
It is a sheep who lets himself sheared.
He who drinks wine without libation is a traitor to the gods.
During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds.
After three days without reading, talk becomes flavorless.
Even your dog knows the homes of your friends.
The man being carried does not realize how far away the town really is.
The death of one person means bread for another.
A fool admires himself most when he has done foolish things.
Never make fun of a ferengi's mother... Insult something he cares about instead.
Break the leg of a bad habit.
It is easier to dam a river than to stop gossip.
Better be a good man's slave than badly married.
On a dead tree there are no monkeys.
When yuh ain't got horse, ride cow.
The devil is never so black as he is painted.
Kings have long arms.
There are more thieves than gallows.
Great talents mature late.
A person needs a face, trees need bark.
Ajaccio, ajaccio, if you don't go there, you won't lose your money.
He who has no children has one sorrow, he who has children has a thousand sorrows.
Whoever buys useless things will soon be selling his necessities.
If your buttocks burn, you know you have done wrong.
Youth will have its course.
You must grease the wheels if you would have the car run.
Who has not understanding, let him have legs.
one ill behaviour may cause others to forget the kindness we've done.
Too many butchers spoil the cow.
We all end up in a single bed sooner or later.
Every cock is master upon his own dunghill.
The friend of a quarrel picker is quarrelsome.
Don't be foolish! because foolishness hits the mark and cursing doesn't.
There are forty kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense.
Choose your wife with her nightcap on.
Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.
Great things are done more through courage than through wisdom.
It is a splinter in the eye of somebody.
You'll know the good soldier in battle.
Don't settle in a place where the doctor has gout.
One should not remove what belongs to my mistress Inana.
You can't be the head of a family unless you show yourself both stupid and deaf.
The foot has no nose.
Wise men make proverbs but fools repeat them.
Hard things alone will not make a wall.
Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
There is no thing wickeder than a woman of evil temper.
Flies will never leave the shop of a sweetmaker.
Grind with every wind.
Virtue is better than wealth.
If you wait you may never start.
The mouth that speaks a lot is liable to hunt a friend.
The execution of but one warrior brings shame to all.
Keep your secret in your own gourd.
The beginning of anger is madness and the end of it is regret.
Presumption first blinds a man, and then sets him a running.
He who took the donkey up to the roof should bring it down.
To do a favour slowly is to begrudge it; to consent slowly shows unwillingness.
Two cats and one mouse, two women in one house, two dogs to one bone, will not agree long.
It's easy to throw something into the river but hard to get it out again.
Ye're black aboot the mou' for want o' kissing.
Better to be poor and honest than to be rich and lying.
Even a worm will turn.
Gain has a pleasant odor, come whence it will.
A wicked man's gift has a touch of his master.
A glorious past is the work of a glorious man.
It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted.
A full belly counsels well.
To love that one who never loves you is like rain falling in the forest.
He who is bad at giving a lodging is good at show the road.
The shortest distance between two people is a smile.
Nothing is so difficult that diligence cannot master it.
He, who laughs last, laughs the longest.
Long sleep makes a bare back.
It is better to turn back than to persevere in an evil course.
Put one person's hat on another's head.
If there is a rich man in the area three villages are ruined.
Thanks is poor pay on which to keep a family.
Dying while young is a boon in old age.
When pisa burned, it rained three nights and three days.
He loses his market who has nothing to sell.
Threads do not break for being fine, but for being gouty and ill-spun.
The early riser gets through his business but not through early rising.
Fertile is water that runs under lava.
A dog does not always bark at the front gate.
A tree cannot stand on the ground without its roots.
If you act as good as you look, you'll never shame your family.
Every one can find fault; few can do better.
Everyone tries to make the water flow to his mill.
Learning makes some into mullahs and some into devils.
He that feeds upon charity has a cold dinner and no supper.
Cunning better than strong.
For every goose there is a gander.
A talkative bird will not build a nest.
Ices plant a new, one.
Man loves but once.
The growth of love is the essence within the soul.
Talk less, say more,
Hasten at leisure.
The tail is always the hardest part to flay.
Experience keeps no school, she teaches her pupils singly.
A stranger does not share the monkey.
Being in love with a married woman is living on borrowed time.
Forgiveness is more satisfying than revenge.
If there is no horse, a donkey will do as well.
An ugly woman's husband better be blind.
It is a little thing to starve to death; it is a serious matter to lose one's virtue.
One has to face fear or forever run from it.
No root, no fruit.
It is he who got milk that is merciful.
The blood creeps where it can't go.
Virtue never goes far without the company of idleness.
A fool and water will go the way they are diverted.
A broken watch is right two times a day.
Do good and throw it in the sea.
The pool has dried up, and the fish is in trouble.
A woman either loves or hates, there is no third course.
Not everything that's allowed is best.
A tailor does not select his cloth.
He who flys high, falls low.
A wise man can hear profit in the wind.
Coal that does not burn gives little heat.
Don't plant pumpkins where they never sprouted.
Do well, and doubt no man; and do weil, and doubt all men.
Because friendship is pleasant, we partake of our friend's entertainment; not because we have not enough to eat in our own house.
Every ten years one man has need of another.
A girl's patience can only be recognised by how long she keeps her virginity.
Arrogance diminishes wisdom.
The brave is known by his fame.
He who throws the ball, must expect it back.
Cultivate friends who pray for you, not prey upon you.
Take the bitter with the sweet.
A plant as sweet as a husband does not grow in the steppe.
Whether well-shaven or not, it looks the same after a few days.
The kite's malady, its wings broken and its beak sound.
Who loves to roam may lose his home.
A broken hand can work but a broken heart can't.
Knows more than fried fish.
You have to kiss a lot of toads before you find a handsome prince.
To rob a robber is not robbing.
When you're sick, tell everyone.
Custom is the great guide.
They are not free who drag their chains behind them.
The talk of the day is the dream of the night.
Don't live in a town where there are no doctors.
The best horse needs a whip, intelligent men need advice, and the devout man needs a woman.
Two eyes see better than one.
Satires run faster than panegyrics.
The bell rings loudest in your own home.
A pretty face and fine clothes do not make character.
It is easier to believe than to go and ask.
It is never too late to offer anything that is good.
Let your purse be your master.
Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be.
Death is common to all.
Even clever hens sometimes lay their eggs among nettles.
Keep holding the hammer.
When you're undressed then you're ready for anything.
Let no man glory in the greatness of his mind, but rather keep watch o'er his wits.
One man's beard is on fire, and another man warms his hands on it.
When a man is rich, he begins to save.
Pleasure is often the introduction to pain.
Ask advice from everyone, but act with your own mind.
Old be, or young die.
In a fiddler's house, all are dancers.
The man does not see the brisket he is eating.
A house ready made and a wife to make.
Providence crushes pride.
Who cuddles a cat, his farmyard will be blessed.
Black as is the raven, he'll get a partner.
When the wine is in, the wit is out.
In the division of inheritance, friendship standeth still.
When you cannot bite a hand, kiss it.
He who lives long knows what pain is.
Better leave something than eating overly much.
If the child does not cry, the mother knows not its wants.
One simple maxim is often worth more than two good friends.
Rule youth well, and eild will rule it fell.
If you must negotiate, watch your enemy's eyes.
A clear conscience shines not only in the eyes.
The last straw breaks the camel's back.
If you would be in good repute, let not the sun find you in bed.
Bad news is the first to come.
The weaknesses of old age are no fit cause for laughter, since they must be our own portion at the end.
Any man can lose his hat in a fairy – wind.
Proffer'd service stinks.
Breasts are never too heavy for the chest.
The achievement of all work is practice.
Give a clown your finger he'll grasp your fist.
If God listened to every shepherd's curse, our sheep would all be dead.
Old men sit in the shade because they planted a tree many years before.
A drink is shorter than a tale.
No forcing the sea.
Enough and no waste is as good as a feast.
Dress slowly when you are in a hurry.
'tis sweet at certain times to drop the sage.
Begin in other people's way so as to end by having your own way.
When the crane passes, urge the oxen on.
The secret of success is to start from scratch.
Seed after a bad year.
He who sets out on a journey without guidance loses his way.
Many a sheep goes out woolly and comes home shorn.
Honorable is the person who is aware of his power, yet refrains from inflicting bad things onto others.
When the drop (drink) is inside, the sense is outside.
The first [cup of vodka] goes as a stake, the second as a falcon, and the third as a little bird.
It's just a wisp in place of a brush.
‘My belly thinks my throat is cut,' as the hungry man said.
The bad man thinks that everybody looks like him.
Speak little and to the purpose.
In the desert of life the wise travel by caravan, while the fool prefers to travel alone.
A fly will not get into a closed mouth.
Even one person in the field is a warrior, if he is a soviet warrior.
Love and arrogance don't go together.
A home without a mother is a desert.
Though the mastiff be gentle, yet bite him not by the lip.
When a palm-branch reaches its height, it gives way for a fresh one to grow.
The wine is sweet, the paying bitter.
Glutton: one who digs his grave with his teeth.
When the Frenchman sleeps the devil rocks him.
It rains sorrow on him who is already wet.
Breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dine like a pauper.
By ignorance we mistake, and by mistakes we learn.
He who loves sorrow, will always find something to mourn over.
Every poor man has a dry throat and wet boots.
The law is not made for the rich.
If women were not vain, men could teach them how to be.
Experience is not always the kindest of teachers, but it is surely the best.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
Many a pupil has gained more wealth than his master.
A woman's belly is a garden with many kinds of fruit.
Advice is least heeded when most needed.
Ten helpless people were surpassed by a single strong person.
It's good to hope, it's the waiting that spoils it.
Unless God does it, what can a doctor do?
Why should I shave when God doesn't?
If it were not for eating, the back might wear gold.
He who guards himself will not perish.
Buyer beware.
The crow blames the crow, 'though its own beak is shitty.
Where there's no love, all faults are seen.
Honest poverty is thinly sown.
Stretch your hands as far as they reach, grab all you can grab.
Plenty is like the mist.
It is sin to steal a pin.
The law does not concern itself about trifles.
A dog always bites under the knee.
As high as Heaven, as deep as Hell.
Tell me the company you keep, and I will tell you who you are.
The wise man is father of the fool.
A red-nosed man may be a teetotaler, but will find no one to believe it.
He pushes it away with the hand, but pulls it forward with the foot.
One good word quenches more heat than a bucket of water.
Women, melons, and cheese are bought by the weight.
Putting salt on every snail.
Patience is the key to tranquility.
The right man comes at the right time.
The more shoots, the more leaves.
The death of the wolves is the safety of the sheep.
Better to take your time on the way, if you bring good news.
Flint and gunpowder: every time they meet there is an explosion.
He has grown in mom's wool basket.
Even drumsticks are heavy on the way home after the dance.
"if I rest, I rust,” says the key.
It is vain to do that by a multitude which a few can accomplish.
The soldier's wife is always a widow.
No road is safer than the one just robbed.
A child is a certain sorrow and uncertain joy.
When the belly is full the mind is amongst the maids.
You must live with a person to know a person. If you want to know me come and live with me.
Dirt is dirtiest upon the fairest spot.
If you find "Miss This Year" beautiful, then you'll find "Miss Next Year" even more so.
A good marksman may miss.
He that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.
From still water God keep me; from running water I will keep myself.
A good listener is a silent flatterer.
It takes a heap of licks to strike a nail in the dark.
Attempt nothing beyond your strength.
The mouth that eats pepper is the one that the pepper influences.
If you can walk you can dance, if you can talk you can sing.
All's fair in love and war.
Sorrow also sings, when it runs to deep to cry.
The Drum is large but empty.
One who sows wind will reap hurricane.
You don't get something for nothing.
The rabbit gets fat on what the hare misses.
Indiscreet questions must be answered with a lie.
Between two stools you come to the ground.
There's no putting off a lie upon the belly.
An oath broken by one does not thereafter bind the other.
A new Bissom sweeps clean.
A clear conscience is a soft pillow.
Take care of clothes from new, take care of [your] honor from when [you are] young.
Overdoing is doing nothing to the purpose.
Falsehood is a nettle that stings those who meddle with it.
The jug will hold water until it breaks.
He who mocks the poor shows contempt for their maker.
Your eye is the only way you can judge things.
Cowboy coffee ain't safe drinkin'.
Garlic is as good as ten mothers.
Don't talk unless you can improve the silence.
No one is without knowledge except he who asks no questions.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
Shallow waters make maist din.
It takes a village to raise a child.
Other people's children cause your nostrils to flare.
It is no shame to tell the truth.
Six hours sleep for a man, seven for a woman, and eight for a fool.
His like jean de nivelle's dog, that runs away when he is called.
She is a sairy mouse, that hes but one Hole.
The fireside is the tulip bed of a winter day.
He who wants a mule without a fault, must walk on foot.
He who has carried the calf will be able by and by to carry the ox.
The one who wrestles with a big man will soon wear himself out.
Say nothing about another that you wouldn't want to hear about yourself.
There wasn't a sound to be heard. You could have heard a pin drop.
The king is dead. Long live the King.
The time to slap a king is the time when a fly touches on his cheek.
When mosquitoes work, they bite and then they sing.
Dignity does not consist in a silk dress.
The woman who tells her age is either too young to have anything to lose or too old to have anything to gain.
Safe over the bridge, one laughs at St. Nepomuck.
He who tells a tale adds another period.
The fruit falls not far from the stem.
He that has no money needs no purse.
When the wound is healed the pain is forgotten.
A silent mouth is melodious.
The gifts of fortune do not always benefit us.
When you die, your sister's tears will dry as time goes on, your widow's tears will end in another's arms, but your mother will mourn you until the day she dies.
Beware of the camel going to seek horns, he lost his ears.
A clear conscience is a good pillow.
He is lucky who forgets what cannot be mended.
Fourty Two is the answer.
Though change be no robbery.
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
Poison quells poison.
Every patient is a doctor after his cure.
The property of a helpless man must nit be divided before his death.
In a very critical situation as the egg will soon tip-over and fall.
No pestle can be bigger than its mortar.
The best laid plans of mice and men often go awry.
Laziness is the sibling of starvation.
Nothing is true, all is permisable.
Where the sun shines, there is also shade.
When God punishes a land, he deprives it's leaders of wisdom.
Lion-skins were never had cheap.
Don't weep over spilled milk.
An old oven is easier to heat than a new one.
A crow doesn't pick out another crow's eyes.
Drunkards know no danger.
Lean meat from a fat pig.
Gossiping about the enemy can result in a war.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
Every donkey has its own saddle.
Look down if you would know how high you stand.
He who herds with wolves, learns to howl.
Three things that attract.
The devil is so fond of his son that he put out his eye.
A traveller may lie with authority.
Hope springs eternal.
The canoe ride is pleasant when the paddler is skilled.
An eagle will not catch flies.
A mother understands what a child does not say.
A man's heart changes as often as does the autumn sky.
No one says his own buttermilk is sour.
A poor man does not pick up things if does they say he stole them.
By pride one causes virtue to decline.
Pray to God for a good harvest, but keep on hoeing.
A proverb is the horse that can carry one swiftly to the discovery of ideas.
Be honorable yourself if you wish to associate with honorable people.
The buyer buys for as little as possible the seller sells for as much as possible.
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
The mysterious road beckons the young man.
Know what you say, but don't say all that you know.
He who receives the offerings let him ring the bells.
He who prays for his neighbor will be heard for himself.
A hungry wolf is not at rest.
Do not compare a fly with an elephant.
Female quarrels breed court cases.
The bad fortune of zoza: in winter it sees not the sun and in summer it sees not the moon.
Harmony creates accommodation.
The news has gone round and round, yet the person it concerns is deaf.
With a bottle and a girl one does not count the hours.
The mouth is the cause of calamity.
He who does not know what to do in his spare time is not a businessman.
Fair words will not make the pot boil.
Hens perched on top will shit on those below.
When your only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.
A spaniel, a wife, and a walnut tree, The more you beat 'em the better they be.
Arabic is a language, Persian is a delicacy and Turkish is an art.
Hunger drives the wolf from its den.
Many are esteemed, only because they are not known.
A single arrow is easily broken, but ten in a bundle aren't.
A three day long merry-making and regret lasting till death.
The lean dog is all fleas.
Fools should have no chappin sticks.
A lot of weeds will grow in a stagnant pond.
A woman who laughs at you has said yes.
Touch me not on the fair heel.
Fear keeps the garden better than the gardener.
To ask is no sin, and to be refused is no calamity.
God made hands before knives.
Women prefer to be beautiful rather than good.
Where the camel is sold for a cent, the ass is worthless.
A bad word whispered will echo a hundred miles.
The full cask makes no noise.
More vicious than a snake.
When money is not a servant it is a master.
Other times, other customs.
A wealthy man is a wise man: a poor man knows nothing.
Pleasure is the bait of evil.
In heaven you wont hear the mosquitoes.
Memory is everyone's friend -- it leaves you when you need it most.
Dirt is dirtiest upon clean white linen.
Other times, other counsels.
Old people's walking teaches young ones to walk.
The customer is always right.
The antics of a market buffoon provide laughter.
The Sun shines on mud, but does not get muddy.
A sharp tongue will cut off its own head.
English: An organised group lifts a mountain.
If you teach a hutu in flinging a spear he will definitely send it into your stomach.
You hide the fact you hate me; I hide the fact I know.
At a bridge, a plank, a river, the servant foremost, the master behind.
"come see me” and "come live with me” are two different things.
Though the bird's in the net It may get away yet.
Wine causes guilt.
In a quarrel, the higher voiced person will win.
Не that seeks trouble never misses.
Riches have wings.
Love kills with golden arrows.
You might as well die with the chills as with the fever.
Mockery is the flashing of slander.
It takes a whole village to raise a child.
You cannot lock up science in one head.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Common fame is seldom to blame.
When you are well off keep as you are.
Age brings experience, and a good mind wisdom.
When he opens up his path, may he carry me along, safe and sound.
To commit harakiri with a pestle.
Beauty is ten, nine of which is dressing.
The words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village.
If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain.
Better reap two days early than one day late.
The bird that escapes from its cage never wants to come back.
The Malt is above the Meal.
No dealing with a revengeful man.
Never let a handshake pass the elbow.
Unfit are some who complain of common food.
He who dances at the wedding, weeps at the funeral.
A man who prides himself on his ancestry is like the potato plant, the best part of which is underground.
Wealth consists not of having great possessions but of having few wants.
Who does all he may never does well.
An elephant does not die from one broken rib.
A desperate person will even hold on to a knife edge.
Learn thou of learned men, th' unlearned of thee; for thus must knowledge propagated be.
The world is a wheel, there are some at the top and some who go to the bottom.
No snowflake ever falls in the wrong place.
Every woman beautiful till she speaks.
We all see the same sun, but we don't eat the same meal.
Money for old rope.
Little by little fills up the measure.
Running away makes you guilty.
Children: one is one, two is fun, three is a houseful.
Armenian Proverbs and the Biblical Scripture, Gayané V. Hagopian, California State University, Northridge.
If everyone were wise, a fool would be the prize.
They cease to be friends who dwell afar off.
If you only depend on others, you will soon go hungry.
No sheep runs into the mouth of a sleeping wolf.
Once burned by milk you will blow on cold water.
To receive a favor is to sell one's liberty.
It is better to be the object of jealousy, than of pity.
A royal heart is often hid under a tattered cloak.
Ye cannot make a silk purse of a sows lug.
A destroyer can defeat thousands of earthenware makers.
The opera isn't over till the fat lady sings.
The best act of generosity is that which is quickly done.
He who greases his cart-wheels helps his oxen.
Everything comes to him who waits.
He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life; but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.
He who solves a problem with a problem will always have a problem in waiting.
He heed have plenty of meal who would stop every man's mouth.
Who goes out in the morning finds a carlin.
Clouds are the sign of rain.
Not everything, which is bad, comes to hurt us.
There is no tree which a panting animal would not cling to.
One who is false to her first oath will be false to her second.
Meet on the stairs and you won't meet in heaven.
Once a whore, always a whore.
Hard-ears you wont hear, own-way ya will feal.
If you are in hiding, don't light a fire.
Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the "guilty” list.
Even the one-eyed man winks to women.
That which is cheap is dear.
If you give a gift to a rich man, the devil sniggers.
Love me when I least deserve it, because that is when I need it the most.
He that comes first to the hill may sit where he will.
He who rides the horse is his master.
If between friends there is not equality, there won't be perfect love.
Mullah is sick when poor dies.
Silence has so much meaning.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
Would I know where I'd fall, I'd lay some straw there ahead of time.
When drums beat, laws are silent.
What kind of parents, such children.
Ten tongues that spread the word are worth less than two eyes that have seen, and two eyes that have seen are worth less than one hand that feels.
He took the devil's mat, but he'll pay back with his skin.
Drop after drop, there will be a sea.
Three women, a goose and two women make a whole fair.
Patience is bitter, but the fruit is sweet.
No matter how far you have walked in the wrong direction certainly you have to turn back and take the right direction.
A joke must not hit the belly.
He who stops at every stone never gets to his journey's end.
The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: climb a tree without arms.
The echo knows all languages.
The animal hide can best be straightened and smoothened when still fresh.
He has his finger in every pie.
In a place without dogs they teach the cats to bark.
When all fruit fails, welcome haws.
Opportunity bears the thief.
The fewer the donkeys, the more ears of corn.
Follow the advice of the one who makes you cry, not from the one who makes you laugh.
A real scoundrel turned up and they took off their hats to him.
One man's beard is burning, and another warms his hands by it.
If I may not keep geese, I shall keep gesline.
When sleeping women wake, mountains move.
To be without a friend is to be poor indeed.
A person never gets tired working for himself.
He who knows much, does not speak much.
You nebber see pop-gun kill alligator.
What men usually ask for when they pray to God is, that two and two may not make four.
Wit and beauty seldom come together.
How easy it is to defeat people who do not kindle fire for themselves.
Respect spiritual beings but keep your distance.
To dare is to lose your foothold for a moment, to not dare is to lose yourself.
Death is nothing and pain is nothing.
Good medicine often has a bitter taste.
When a woman prepares a dish which others find unpalatable, she says that she prepared it to suit her own taste.
The family that prays together stays together.
If you throw a handful of stones, one at least will hit.
Every sheep is hung by his own leg.
Sending the goose on a message to the fox's den.
Beauty passes, but perfection remains with us.
A scabby colt may make a good horse.
A man with two ears can be supported by two words.
Leave well enough alone.
A merciful barber-surgeon gives the wound gangrene.
When a man's coat is threadbare, it is easy to pick a hole in it.
Never rub your eye with anything but your elbow.
Get bait while the tide is out.
The stupid fear fortune, the wise endure it.
An egg today is worth a hen tomorrow.
Ever receive a present with approbation.
Truth fears no trial.
A loud voice can make even the truth sound foolish.
Best is the enemy of good.
That's how the world is: wolves kill sheep.
Sweetness attracts more flies than sourness.
Once a use and ever a custom.
No matter how much you eat, save some seeds for sowing.
Affectation is a greater injury to the face than smallpox.
He that stands may fall.
Desire never stops, it increases even after satisfaction.
The depth of a speech comes with jaws.
A bar of iron continually ground becomes a needle.
To a young heart everything is sport.
Evening song with drinks: morning song with coughs.
The wound heals, the scar remains.
They asked a bullfrog, They asked a bullfrog, "Why do you croak all the time?" He replied, "I'm enchanted with my voice."
Do not talk about a rope in the house of someone whose father was hung.
I against my brother, I and my brother against our cousin, I, my brother and our cousin against the neighbors, All of us against the foreigner.
Italy will take care of itself.
My bark, once struck by the fury of the storm, dreads again to approach the place of danger.
He who would have clear water should go to the fountain head.
Better to hear curses than to be pitied.
They are not all saints who use holy water.
Need makes the old woman trot.
Vinegar that is free, is sweeter than honey.
Pleasure is non-essential.
What belongs to everybody belongs to nobody.
On a small pretence the wolf devours the sheep.
Whatever you eat will rot, whatever you give will blossom into a rose.
The fish who is in the weir will want out, who is outside will want inside the weir.
He that will have eggs, must bear with cackling.
Marriage and maids, don't suggest them because you'll be cursed.
Prayer is a wish turned upward.
If you're going home, you don't get wet.
Opposition to everyone is a mistaken act.
The turtle does not suffer when running.
The bocor gives you a protective charm, but he doesn't tell you to sleep in the middle of the highway.
Two cannot fall out if one does not choose.
When a man sleeps, it is the same person when he wakes up.
The entire world rests on the tip of the tongue.
No sooner is a law made than a way around it is discovered.
Dogs bark at hose they don't know.
A flea on the top of a bald head - it is only too apparent.
There is no pleasure but palls, and the more so if it costs nothing.
Peace and tranquillity are a thousand gold pieces.
Since the beggar would come any way, it's best to invite him first.
An inch too short is as bad as an ell.
Even a blind pig finds an acorn every once in awhile.
Bad is never good until worse happens.
Another man's horse and your own spurs outrun the wind.
Deliberation often loses a good chance.
Kamau who is white becomes black.
Food you will not eat you do not boil.
China National anthem Chinese & English lyrics.
Who does well, meets goodwill.
Good looking apples are sometimes sour.
Luck is the idol of the idle.
Who looks not before finds himself behind.
Faith is the vision of the heart.
A sparrow in the hand is better then a pigeon on the branch.
A fat belly did not invent gun powder.
A pot trader whose fortunes are all invested in her clay pots isn't much of a merchant.
A good rule of thumb.
Bairns speak i' the field what they hear i' the ha'.
You shake man' hand: you no shake him heart.
Ask God for what man can give, and you may get it.
When the fox preaches, beware of your geese.
Whoever wants honey must breed bees.
After the conflagration ruins remain.
Cheese and bread make the cheeks red.
The moon grows darker as it gets nearer to the sun.
Better a dinner of herbs than a stalled ox where hate is.
Knowledge is power.
Nobody walks with another man's gait.
You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather.
As twice two is four.
When an old man dies, a library burns down.
Covet wealth, and want it; don't, and luck will grant it.
It is not the most beautiful woman who has the most sense.
A beggar won't mind being insulted.
Great deeds are reserved for great souls.
The healthy can't pretend to be sick nor can the sick pretend to be healthy.
When a sickle is drawn, it in turn draws the tree to which it is hooked.
You may adopt an indirect approach to reach your goal.
Never fight an enemy whilst it is possible to cheat him.
No matter how big a child is, he cannot deny that he was once carried on the back of a woman.
Only your real friends will tell you when your face is dirty.
At birth your fate is written.
Lying rides upon debt's back.
In the morning potatoes, in the daytime potatoes and when the cows return in the evening it's potatoes again.
Harsh words hurt more than a poisonous arrow.
No matter how far you are from your house, you will keep going until you get home.
A day of grief lasts longer than a month of joy.
When drinking water, think about the source.
To rude words deaf ears.
Literal meaning: The friend in tight times.
There are two sides to every question.
War is too important to be left to the generals.
Eight lives for the men and nine for the women.
If you run from a wolf, you may run into a bear.
Mickle Water runs, where the Miller sleeps.
One who smiles rather than rages is always the stronger.
Muddy springs will have muddy streams.
What he gains at the toll, loses at the customs.
The white head often lacks good sense.
A proverb can't be judged.
Erring is human, forgiving is divine.
Do not put in more warp than you can weave.
We can study until old age and still not finish.
Near the dry, the damp will burn.
The eye cannot penetrate darkness.
Mouth is the home of words.
Don't teach fishes to swim.
Who wings, drives away care.
Works like the train toilet.
To wash an ass's head is but loss of time and soap.
He had need rise early who would please everybody.
An old monkey never forgets how to climb trees.
It is better to write down something once than read it ten times.
He's small but he's a rock.
The owner's eyes fatten the swine.
The doghouse is no place to keep a sausage.
Lack of resource has hanged many a person.
‘Tis day still, while the sun shines.
Naething venture, naething have.
There's no shame in clothing you haven't cut yourself.
He rises over early that is hangit ere noon.
A whisper has more meaning than a noisy talk.
He that holds the handle of a frying-pan runs the risk of burning himself.
You may well have caught a bird, but have you a fire to roast it on?
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Virtue consists in action.
It is easier to suppress the first desire than to satisfy all that follow it.
To change and to improve are two different things.
Fortune makes friends; misfortune tries them.
All saints do not work miracles.
Spring doesn't come with just a single flower.
Man is after money, but money is after his soul.
From saving comes having.
A leopard is such an elusive animal that it can only be caught by the combined force of a man and his father-in-law.
Defer not till to-morrow what may be done to-day.
There will be a replacement for everything.
To forget is the same as to throw away.
Asking is no sin, and being refused is no tragedy.
To put off repentance is dangerous.
If you would grow poor without perceiving it, employ workmen and go to sleep.
An army is driven back by courage and not by insults, however many.
The riches that are in the heart cannot be stolen.
Quiet streams erode the shore.
A bird in the hand has more worth than two flying.
I thought I had made the sign of the cross -- and I hurt my eye.
Where there is life there is hope.
He is one pamphlet behind, the others.
Don't despise someone for telling the truth.
As the grace of man is in the mind, so the beauty of the mind is eloquence.
Hell is crowded with ungrateful wretches.
All temptations are found either in hope or fear.
The master is the master and the owner is the headmaster.
Ones who are unable to live under the same sky.
Yesterday's drunkenness will not quench today's thirst.
Whom fortune favors, the world favors.
Remember the scent.
Bad and good are intertwined like rope.
He who peeps through a hole, may see what will vex him.
The woman who takes a wolf for a husband is always looking into the wood.
Who has beard has the power.
more lost then the winter moon.
Lure a tiger out of its mountain.
What makes the drum pleasing is the song.
The elephant that is stuck in the mud will tear down the tree with it.
To handle yourself use your head to handle others use your heart.
Eat warm and drink cold.
Strive to live well within your means.
When it's time to fry the beans, you can't do without lard.
In this world, nothing is permanent except change.
Choose you friends like your books: few but choice.
When you put your nose into the water your cheeks get wet as well.
A beardless boy would teach old men!
The devil tempts all men, but idle men tempt the devil.
Great gaps may be filled with small stones.
The soul of a three year old until a hundred.
Never beg from one who was a beggar.
Better than the young man's knowledge is the old man's experience.
It is better to be a beggar than a fool.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
A man could die just cultivating fava beans and the kitchen garden.
Beautiful words don't put porridge in the pot.
Money, like a queen, gives rank and beauty.
Hear all, believe nothing.
A child who knows how to wash his hands will eat with the chiefs.
When money speaks the world is silent.
He who goes to the quarterdeck and forecastle will return to the hold eventualy.
He that will lie will steal.
The important things are left in the locker.
Two is good, one alone cannot wash his back.
One swallow creates no summer.
Whoever sows on hard ground, needs good wishes and luck.
A monkey cannot dare what an elephant can.
Catch the bear before you sell his skin.
They who dig the wells never drink from them.
Rat no dey born rabbit.
It is easy to become a monk in one's old age.
You can leave without a friend but never without a neighbour.
A volunteer is worth twenty pressed men.
Shoot at someone's shadow with sand.
Right or wrong, God aid our purpose.
Silence is golden, speech is silver.
It's often a man's mouth broke his nose.
Pain is inevitable suffering is optional.
A man travels as far in a day as a snail in a hundred years.
Once the mushroom has sprouted from the earth, there is no turning back.
There is no earthly bliss not watered by tears.
Tell me with whom you go and i'll tell you what you are.
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.
A fool throws a stone into a well, and it requires a hundred wise men to get it out again.
A wise teacher makes learning a joy.
No one drinks medicine on behalf of a sick person.
Who walks in the mud, at some point must clean his feet.
Childhood memories last long.
Using up the arrows, before getting into battle.
Whoever stays awake longest must blow out the candle.
If you swear you will catch no fish.
Conceal not your secret from your friend, or you deserve to lose him.
Who is the happiest person in the world? An unfaithful husband.
The priest does not eat pilav every day.
If the pupil is smart, the teacher gets the credit.
Without ceres and Bacchus, Venus grows cold.
Noble is, that noble does.
In the estimation of the nightingale, a cage of gold is a prison.
Learning means loving the country.
The barber learns his trade on the orphan's chin.
The path to your heart's desire is never overgrown.
Every fresh banana leaf should eventually become a dry banana leaf.
In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish.
A village that you can see in a distance do not require a guide.
If you plant grass, you won't get rice.
To know everything is to know nothing.
A fly doesn't harm anyone.
An empty bag will not stay up.
Every one stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet.
One should pay attention to an old man's words. One should submit oneself to his protection.
Open rebuke is better than secret love.
"Must" is a bitter herb.
The malady that is more incurable is folly.
Over truth there is light.
Classic, a book which people praise and don't read. (Mark Twain)
This world is a harsh place, this world.
The eyes want more than the stomach.
A young physician fattens the churchyard.
When glory comes, loss of memory follows.
You need sharp axes for knotty trees.
Who works hard will feel no hunger.
He who hath gold hath fear, and he who hath none has sorrow.
And all good things are yours.
Indecision is like the stepchild: if he doesn't wash his hands, he is called dirty; if he does, he is wasting the water.
Don't hope for rain or thunder, hope for an agronomist.
Few words are best.
Adam's ale is the best brew.
The wolf will hire himself out very cheaply as a shepherd.
Giving promptly is like giving twice.
At an ambuscade of villains a man does better with his feet than his hands.
English: A good beginnings makes a good ending.
A rocky vinyard does not need a prayer, but a pick ax.
Even in paradise it is no fun to be alone.
One coin saved, a hundred losses.
A person of high principles is one who can watch an entire chess game without making a comment.
Respect bread because bread is older than we are.
Truth is what women do not tell.
Wisdom is a comb given to a man once he is bald.
Hell is not as bad as the road that leads to it.
Those who digs an evil hole will fall into it.
Cover a dog bite with fur.
It's a good answer that knows when to stop.
Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow.
He who makes himself a servant is expected to remain a servant.
Treat your guest as a guest for two days; on the third day, give him a hoe.
When the summer is winter, and the winter is summer, it is a sorry year.
The office teaches the man.
Disease is soon shaken By physic soon taken.
A bush does note grow berries in winter.
It is easier to build two hearths than always to keep fire on one.
Good millet is known at the harvest.
Only by falling do you learn how to mount a horse.
Error is no payment.
What! No star, and you are going out to sea? Marching, and you have no music? Traveling, and you have no book? What! No love, and you are going out to live?
You cannot tell from a man's clothes how much he is making, but you must look at his wife's.
The meat-biting tooth is in the mouth; the man-biting tooth is in the soul.
Work done, have your fun.
He who would be everywhere will be nowhere.
Women are shy and shame prevents them from refusing a man.
Honor and profit will not keep in one sack.
He who marries does well, but who remains single does better.
He rises early that is hanged before noon.
A hint is sufficient for the wise.
Autumn days come quickly like the running of a hound on the moor.
A closed mouth catches neither flies nor food.
The person who guards himself will not be destroyed.
Mothers-in-law are hard of hearing.
There is no butcher that does not slaughter.
Complaining to someone other than God is disgraceful.
Quhiles thou, whiles I, soe goes the Baillerie.
The brave man is not he who doesn't feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear.
A child's hand is not burned by hot yam which is placed into his palm by his mother.
As pure as snow.
At Caltagirone a hairy conscience and a crown with fifteen places.
You don't have to put out the fire when all is ash.
Sweep in front of your own door before you look after your neighbor's.
The remedy for injuries is not to remember them.
The cheapest way to win a person is by a smile.
If you don't walk after eating, your food remains undigested.
Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere.
In sweet converse call the righteous to thy side, learn a healing song while thou livest.
Against change of fortune set a brave heart.
You know not what the evening may bring with it.
He expects to find water at the first stroke of the spade.
Ask help from the spirits after having used all your strength.
When a poor man gets a little money, his thoughts go off in ten different directions.
Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son.
Blind men have no need to walk.
Though the sun shines, leave not your cloak at home.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
Take away the motive, and the sin is taken away.
One takes care of one's own: when a bachelor roasts yam, he share's it with his sheep.
Beware of a white Spaniard and a black Englishman.
A dog that barks all the time gets little attention.
Not everybody is as bad as he is dressed.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years; the slave of a woman dies in six months.
He who talks to a silent listener will soon stand naked.
Virtue carries an empty purse.
The moth does most mischief to the finest garment.
The way to avoid great faults is to b aware of little ones.
A drop of wisdom is better than a sea of gold.
He who paints the flower cannot paint its fragrance.
If the brain sows not corn, it plants thistles.
Smash the pots and sink the boats.
You will never drown where you always take a bath.
Turning the water to his own mill.
Wiff takir ey bradh a sinne æghne mark.
When the earth is hot, the worm stays in the ground.
The outward forms the inward man reveal - we guess the pulp before we cut the peel.
Every ant has its ire.
Don't divide the spoil before the victory is won.
Between two brothers two witness and a notary.
Courage is a kingdom without a crown.
Beware the man who lavishes too much praise on you, he will later run you down.
Before the fat one slims, the slim one will die.
Nothing is impossible to a willing heart.
Don't strike a flea on a tiger's head.
Benefits, like flowers, please most when they are fresh.
The thief believes that everybody steals.
It is better to work in your own land than to count your money abroad.
Don't give in one inch to the devil.
The devil looks after himself.
Rule: Never perform card tricks for the people you play poker with.
Better children weep than old men.
A chattering bird builds no nest.
Peel the inner bark of the lime tree until it peels.
It will come in an hour, that will not come in a year.
What a man can be is born with him; what he becomes is a result of his environment.
When the bundles of tobacco are ready, dancing begins.
When it is the turn of a man to become the head of a village, he does not need to diviner to tell him that he is destined to rule.
An ill hound comes halting home.
Hope and strive is the way to thrive.
As the saying goes.
The fool hunts for misfortune.
Better the best of the worst than the worst of the best.
You can't squeeze blood from a stone.
He who follows his wife's advice will never see the face of god.
'tis afterwards that everything is understood.
If I am in harmony with my family, that's success.
A young doctor makes a humpy graveyard.
Many stop their noses at ambergris.
Much water has run in the danube sine then.
The best brewer sometimes makes bad beer.
Did hogs feed here or did lithuanians have a feast here?
Better be envied nor pittied.
You will wear the ivy wreath, the victor's meed.
Now it rains, and again the sun shines forth brightly in the heavens.
Cheese, pears and bread, is not the food of peasants.
You are the subject of he whose handcuffs you wear.
"Your feet are crooked, your hair is good for nothing," said the pig to the horse.
Pride can live in the dungheap.
Your own deeds will long be baptized on you.
Kick away the ladder and your feet are left dangling.
Give a horse to the one who likes the truth so that on it he can escape.
So much does one shout "Christmas" that at last it comes!
A hungry stomach makes a short prayer.
Supper is soon served up in a plentiful house.
He who admits to his ignorance shows it once only; he who tries to hide it shows it frequently.
He who can read and write has four eyes.
The bath has sworn not to whiten the blackamoor.
It is worms which destroy a tree, it is worry which destroys a man.
When a girl is born it is like having six thieves invade the house.
Nobody lives in another person's head.
Haste is the enemy of perfection.
In a wealthy man's house there is no lean dog.
No put youself in a barrel when match box can hol you.
A good swordsman is not given to quarrel.
The poor man and the rich man do not play together.
All women are good Lutherans - they would rather preach than hear mass.
A Montgomery division: all on one side, nothing on the other.
Poor men's money and cowards' weapons are often flourished.
To have two eyes is cause for pride; but to have one eye is better than to have none.
Beating drums is fun, but also tiring.
A person who does not bathe, must know it of himself that he is dirty.
It's not a matter of upper and lower class but of being up a while and down a while.
The tears of the adulteress are ever ready to be shed.
Too many captains the ship rolls.
When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends.
The bell is loud because it is empty.
The wet branch burns better than the dry stone.
You can't live a long life and remain upright.
Broken friendship may be soldered but can never be made sound.
Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone.
Life is like a game in which God shuffles the cards, the devil deals them and we have to play the trumps.
We are often shot with our own feathers.
Had he not been visited by sickness, he would have perished utterly.
If you don't wish to have rags for clothes, don't play with a dog.
Never hang your hat higher than you can reach.
We do not inherit the land from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children.
What is not bitter is good to eat.
Entrust not your goats nor sheep to the unmarried Shepherd.
It concerns you, too, when your neighbor's wall is on fire.
A handful of skill is better than a bagful of gold.
Even foul water will put out a fire.
Arms carry peace.
Between two stools, you fall to the ground.
Money is a good servant, but a bad master.
A camel does not drink with a spoon.
You cannot serve God and mammon.
Too much scratching smarts, too much talking harms.
When your Companion is being shaved, put water.
A priest blesses his own bread first.
Unprepare to prepare, be prepared to be unprepared.
Borrowing does well only once.
He is a fool who spares the children after having killed the father.
The tree casts its shadow on everything, even upon the woodcutter.
The person who is well prepared has already won half of the battle.
Every flower has a different smell.
One shouldn't sell the bear's fur before one has killed him.
One man's fault is another man's lesson.
If the fight is tomorrow, then why should you clench your fist today?
Hunger is not [your] aunt (, [it] will not bring you a pie).
A dressed up lie is worth more than a badly told truth.
Good stew is best to be made in an old pot.
Two birds of prey do not keep each other company.
The noisiest drum has nothing in it but air.
If they say you are good, ask you self if it be true.
He that peeps into every bush will hardly get into the wood.
Smart who smiles, stupid who laughs.
A dying ear does not feel the medicine.
For a jest one should not take the arrow out of the quiver.
Better the friend we can see than the money we cannot.
He said, "my uncle is the horse.”.
All griefs with bread are less.
A good paymaster does not hesitate to give good security.
Tigers die and leave their stripes, but humans die leaving their names.
Taste in variety, variety in taste.
He that will get the better of a fox must rise early.
If you want anything well done, do it yourself.
Don't even take a bath with fools, because they'll throw away the soap.
Who are ready to believe are easy to deceive.
To a quick ear half a word.
Klingons kill for their own purposes.
Think much, speak little and write less.
The master of the people is their servant.
Cold hearts can find warm words.
Only bread and an onion? your life's still an open one.
Don't use a lot where a little will do.
Blessings brighten as they take their flight.
There are five ways in which to become wise: be silent.
The spirit of a three-year-old lasts a hundred years.
A job feeds a man, laziness spoils him.
He is not to blame who does his duty.
A fine cage won't feed the bird.
One pebble doesn't make a floor.
It is better to refuse than to accept and not to go.
Put something sweet in his mouth and send good news to the heart.
God keeps those safe who keep themselves safe.
Illness tells us what we are.
Some forgiveness is weakness.
Elderberries in the yard and an uncle in kiev.
An old man always keeps something in reserve.
Once a person cheats in an exam, forever people will distrust him.
What the superior man seeks in himself, the small man seeks in others.
One can't enter heaven by worshiping, one needs to have a pure heart.
A weaning baby that does not cry aloud, will die on its mothers back.
Cheating is more honorable than stealing.
Strew no roses before swine.
The wood will renew the foliage it sheds.
That's a spoon ye'll sup sorrow with yet.
A throw without a thrower.
Necessity is mother of every invention.
With many little strokes a large tree is felled.
If you offend, ask for pardon; if offended, forgive.
He who blows into the wind gets smoke in his eyes.
If meat is expensive then patience is cheap.
Don't cut off ya nose to spite ya face.
Don't pluck the apple while it is green; when it is ripe it will fall of itself.
You can beat a fool half to death but you can't beat the foolishness out of him.
Never choose your women or your linen by candlelight.
Sit, sit, daughter, sit, because good fortune is coming.
The animal rambling in the stable makes the sleeping ones rise too.
He who laughs too much, is hiding his grief.
A small hole can sink a big ship.
A little man fells a great oak.
One good morsel and a hundred vexations.
Aching bones will never kill you.
Sin is carried in the mouth.
It is better to save your innocence at the cost of your honor, than to save your country at the cost of your life.
She who is pregnant, is pregnant-even though she wrap herself in an 'mkaja'.
A good wife is the crown of the house.
If you cry because the sun has gone out of your life, your tears will prevent you from seeing the stars.
Silk and velvet put out the kitchen fire.
A chain is as strong as its weakest link.
He that hunts others, must run himself.
Mean fathers, wasteful sons.
There is no phrase that doesn't have a double meaning.
The most beautiful flowers flourish in the shade.
You are as many a person as languages you know.
Though God is almighty, he doesn't send rain from a clear sky.
Bad news proceeds by wings, good news hardly walks.
Beauty is not sold and eaten.
Boys and sugar-cane grow up as enemies.
Call on God, but row away from the rocks.
Better to say nothing, than to say something not to the purpose.
People should not talk while they are eating or pepper may go down the wrong way.
If you want to eat pig, choose one which is fat.
No matter if the child's born blind, as long as it doesn't beg.
Don't be like a shadow: a constant companion, but not a comrade.
Hunger is a bigger master than the king.
Faith can move mountains.
Stone dead hath no fellow.
A goat does not always graze in the same place.
Life? That is a candle in the wind; frost upon a roof; the twitching of the fish in a pan.
If you want a beautiful woman, hurry to syracuse.
Work improves the harvest better than the field itself.
Few lawyers die well, few physicians live well.
Who has done evil will answer for evil.
The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth.
Moving water makes stagnant water move.
The man dying to hang himself can always find a noose.
Men that have much business must have much pardon.
One is wiser in the morning than in the evening.
Any fool can say "ah” - you need intelligence to say "yes.”.
When a woman is hungry, she says, "Roast something for the children that they may eat."
To-morrow will be another day.
A sly cat makes a big jump.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
An ugly girl does not become old at home.
A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in.
Women and hens are lost by too much gadding.
Cross even a stone bridge after you've tested it.
Where your will is ready, your feet are light.
No good doctor ever takes physic.
An old man telling lies is like a rich man stealing.
One never gets more than one's money's worth of anything.
Every herring must hang by its own gill.
He sits full still that hes a riven brick.
Much water passes by the mill that the miller perceives not.
We easily believe that which we hope for.
There's no hearth like your own hearth.
A headless army fights badly.
It's not every question that deserves an answer.
Facts are male, words are female.
A single conversation with a wise man is worth a month's study of books.
It was not on one foot that St. Patrick came to Ireland.
A mended lid to a cracked pan.
Brothers and sisters are as close as hands and feet.
Who has patience sees his revenge.
All the past died yesterday; the future is born today.
To change one's habits has a smell of death.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
Who has no shame all the world is his own.
Every man to his trade.
One word let slip and four horses would fail to catch it.
A good bell is heard from far, a bad one still further.
The cow has forgotten she was once a calf.
The Almighty moves mountains but don't forget to bring your shovel.
Gold is proved in the fire, friendship in need.
He who thinks the worst usually is right.
Here's to a long life and a merry one. A quick death and an easy one. A pretty girl and an honest one. A cold pint and another one!
Don't carry all your eggs in one basket.
A good speaker makes a good liar.
Don't overstrain your bow - it may break.
Give me wool and tomorrow you will have a sheep.
He who does not fully speak the truth is a traitor to it.
Sea urchins, limpets, and crabs you spend a lot and eat nothing.
Death is a black camel that lies down at every door.
Marrying is easy, but housekeeping is hard.
Make happy those who are near, and those who are far will come.
Those who make friendship with a club shouldn't expect a good handshake.
If you don't mend up a small crack on the wall you end up building the entire wall.
Who weds a widow with three children takes four thieves into his house.
Old love makes thirsty.
One pound of learning could require an army of common sense to apply it .
It is ill sitting at Rome and striving with the Pope.
If it's God's will the broom will lose its handle.
The cow gives milk through her mouth.
It is the good horse that draws its own cart.
A lame goat will not sleep by day.
Worries wash away better with soup.
A gift much expected is paid, not given.
You cannot loosen a man's tongue with root beer.
Practice no vice because it's trivial; neglect no virtue because it's so.
Listen to the sound of the river and you will get a trout.
Truth seldom finds a home.
A bite from a loving mouth is worth more than a kiss from any other.
If you enter the city of the blind, cover your eyes.
Without love everything is in vain.
It is not only the fox, even the snail arrives at its destination.
The deceived sheep that went for wool and came back shorn.
Everyone takes his pleasure where he finds it.
A merry life ends in a poor man's will.
If a dog's prayers were answered, bones would rain from the sky.
Better envy than pity.
Don't lock the stable door after the horse is stolen.
From the sweetest wine, the tartest vinegar.
A gypsy only tells the truth once in his life but he regrets it afterwards.
Do not make yourself so big, you are not so small.
Wealth makes worship.
A hammer does not work with iron.
The whole world is a dream, and death the interpreter.
He is noble who performs noble deeds.
Black hens lays white eggs.
The leech that does not let go even when it is filled, dies on the dry land.
To love is to choose.
Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house.
A full man is no eater.
Every tide has an ebb save the tide of graces.
If anybody makes you laugh, it is not always because he loves you.
Beginning is easy – Continuing is hard.
As the day lengthens, so the cold strengthens.
A tiger dies and leaves his skin; a man dies and leaves his name.
Who sets a bug on its feet on the path will step up the staircase.
A good man is a man of goods.
On a long journey, even a straw weighs heavy.
An absent person should have his excuse.
Deep calls unto deep.
Keep yourself from the opportunity and god will keep you from the sin.
It is hard to steal where the host is a thief.
A hangman is a good trade, he doth his work by daylight.
There are many ways of killing a pig other than by choking it with butter.
He who wears a smile instead of worrying is always the strongest.
Many shun the brook, and fall into the river.
A picture is worth ten thousand words.
Not shooting means always missing.
He that will enter into paradise must have a good key.
The eagle does not catch flies.
Opportunity makes a thief.
He came back empty-handed.
Better give the wool than the sheep.
Haste bequeaths disappointment.
First a turnip, then a sheep; next a cow, and then the gallows.
Each trip gives you its own uniqueness.
A day in prison is longer than a thousand years at large.
For those who come late, only the bones.
If there is no wind, row.
Getting what you go after is called success, but liking it while you are getting it is called happiness.
Better to go to bed supperless than run in debt.
Eagles catch no flies.
Even the sword doesn't cut the head of the one who confesses.
An imbecile can manage his own affairs better than a wise man the affairs of other people.
Trust not to God but upon good security.
Every door with its own key.
If God does not grant you glory, be content with fame.
Don't allow the grass to grow on the path of friendship.
Auld springs gie me price.
He gives too late who waits to be asked.
A good understanding makes good friends.
It is a poor fox that has but one hole.
Honey-tongued, soft spoken, malicious, and unprincipled in conduct.
A weapon that you don't have in your hand will not kill a snake. Looking for something can get in the way of finding it.
Coward against coward, the assailant conquers.
When you cook a guinea fowl, the partridge gets a headache.
Sue a beggar and get a louse.
A good reputation stands still; a bad one runs.
What you've brought for me, take for your aunt.
Who waits hoping in plans and dreams, loses time, and collects flies and troubles.
One fire brand after another keeps fire burning.
In the shelter of each other, the people live.
Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested. (Francis Bacon)
Spider an' fly no make bargain.
Always being in a hurry does not prevent death, neither does going slowly prevent living.
A little spark kindles a great fire.
A penny at a pinch is worth a pound.
Good things come to those who wait.
It is approved alchemy to have an income and spend nothing.
Might overcomes right.
If you lie upon roses when young, you will lie upon thorns when old.
The inarticulate speak longest.
Hope puts that haste into zour heid.
He that would have the fruit, must climb the tree.
Who gives, teaches a return.
If you lie down with dogs, you will get up with fleas.
A good anvil fears no hammer.
When the fox is engaging you in conversation, keep an eye on your chicken.
When the cat's away the mice play.
What makes up an anthill is the effort and order of determined and organised termites.
Friendship broken may be soldered, but never made whole.
Do good and don't worry to whom.
Great greediness to reap, helps not the money-heap.
Thief who steals thief has one hundred years of pardon.
The fox may grow grey, but never good.
One idiot can ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
Luck and laziness go hand in hand.
To take revenge on an enemy, give him an elephant -- first he must thank you for the gift, and then the elephant's appetite will deplete your enemy's resources.
When a ripe fruit sees an honest man, it drops.
Make yourself a sheep and the wolf is ready.
Anything worth doing is worth doing for money.
The most useful holy war is the one fought against your own passions.
Mair by luck than good guiding.
The death of an elderly man is like a burning library.
The young cock said to the young chicken: the whole world is like our home.
There is not the thickness of a peso between good and evil.
Almsgiving never impoverished, stealing never enriched, and prosperity never made wise.
A dull ass near home trots without the stick.
Children aren't dogs; adults aren't gods.
Learn a new language and get a new soul.
A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present; a kiss to greet the future.
Behave like the chameleon: look forward and observe behind.
Food is no more important than wisdom, The beginning of wisdom is the fear of God.
You can't fight City Hall.
A spoon does not know the taste of soup, nor a learned fool the taste of wisdom.
However smart a squirrel jumps, in the end they fall back down.
When a naked person promises you cloth beware.
It's better to be prepared than swift afterwards.
Community is not made by force.
A covetous abbot for one offering loses a hundred.
There is a skill in gruel making.
One hand washes the other and both wash the face.
With money one may command devils; without it, one cannot even summon a man.
He who eats bitter things gets sweet things too.
The thief hates the moon.
Better delay and get there.
Coward people have no country of their own.
God grant me a good sword and no use for it.
Never quarrel with one's bread and butter.
It is God who cures, and the physician gets the money.
A good mind possesses a kingdom.
Never share a foxhole with anyone braver than you are.
One crow does not make a winter.
If you're beautiful, whatever you do is fine.
Not all the tree's blossoms will bear fruit.
Follow the customs or flee the country.
He quits his place well that leaves his friend there.
We soon believe what we desire.
Easier hides a wise man his wisdom than a fool his madness.
Need teaches a plan.
A rich widow weeps in one eye and laughs with the other.
Fear blows wind into your sails.
In his own nest a beetle is a sultan.
There is an excess of familiarity at the root of all hostility.
To whiten ivory with dye is to spoil nature by art.
To eat much leaves you with a swollen belly.
One kisses the child and means the nurse.
The world is a ladder for some to go up and some down.
Old friends are always new.
Travel the highway, though it be roundabout – where shortcuts are dangerous.
He who has teeth has no bread, and he who has bread has no teeth.
The best preparation for tomorrow is to make sure today's work is superbly done.
Let christians practice their own religion, and jews practice theirs.
A drop from every mug makes for a house for the barmaid.
He utters in his language something different from what he ponders in his mind.
He who is not beaten by the sun or the rain, will eventually be beaten by the hunger.
The shadow of a lord is a cap for a fool.
A lord without land, is like a cask without wine.
If there be a hell, Rome is built over it.
When two elephants fight, it is the grass that gets trampled.
Keep your eye on girls that don't tell their mothers everything.
Law helps the waking, luck may come to the sleeping.
Pray as though no work could help, and work as though no prayer could help.
A guest is a gift, a thief a tragedy.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
Give ear and weigh the matter well.
Eat to see the bowl, go to see the way.
Doesn't paddle, but puts his feet in the river.
To be a smart man you need to be humble.
He was burned, so he ran into the bamboo grove, but the grove caught fire.
Care is the mother of the porcelain cabinet.
If you want to be dead, wash your head and go to bed.
Man learns from the cradle to the grave.
No matter how sharp a knife is, it can never cut its handle.
A flow of words is no proof of being easy enough.
Look after number one.
If death be terrible, the fault is not in death, but thee.
A knife-wound heals, but a tongue wound festers.
As the snow melts the filth shows through.
It's out of ignorance that a goat will attend a leopard's party.
A party of one alone is not a party.
What the eye has seen, the heart never forgets.
Deceit is a lie which wears a smile.
Share riches and poverty returns.
When one comes to comfort a young widow, he does not mean to perform a good deed.
A drunkard is like a whisky bottle only neck and belly but no head.
A rich man is never ugly in the eyes of a girl.
No one has seen to-morrow.
If you are going to sit on it for three years, the seat will certainly get warm.
So long as the wolf is captured the dog will bite his leg.
He who marries a widow also marries her debts.
A foolish head weakens the feet.
The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it.
All who live under the sky are woven together like one big mat.
Bread and bird: we don't discuss house business.
Don't close the barn door after the horse runs away.
If God were living on earth, people would break His windows.
[I'd like to] drink honey with your lips.
Long talk makes short days.
Like the cat in the tree, getting caught up in the chase can leave us in an awkward place.
Be on a horse when you go in search of a better one.
Better bow than break.
A man who lives on the bank of a river does not use spittle to wash his hands.
After beating milk, butter is obtained.
The mortar always smells of garlic.
The bride who wears four petticoats has a lot to hide.
He who fears the crying of a child, will cry himself.
The sea of bitterness has no bounds - repent and the shore is near.
Beware of a quiet dog and still water.
Don't praise your furnace when the house is cold.
Now a layman, to-morrow a clerk.
The laziness of youths is worse than war.
As water runs towards the sword money towards the rich man's hand.
Tie me hand and foot and throw me among my own people.
Wherever we live, we must observe the local custom.
Alive one hour, dead another.
Often does one desire what one does not need.
The blindnes of that one is his good fortune.
Two heads cut off and thrown high into the tree have only the winds with which to scheme.
When the last tree has been cut down, the last river has been polluted and the last fish has been caught -- only then do you realize that money can't buy everything.
He who looks up too much gets a pain in the neck.
The raven chides blackness.
The eye cannot bear loads yet it can tell heavy objects from light ones.
It's amazing what you can do when someone has faith in you.
In small churches, small saints are big..
Taking aim for too long can ruin your eyes.
See, hear, and hold your tongue.
One tree can make a million matches, and one match can destroy a million trees.
If you can't beat them, join them.
One takes care of the horse, another rides it.
Health comes before making a livelihood.
A nightingale doesn't feed on songs.
The tears of a man drop onto his chest.
There is no lie spun so fine, through which the truth won't shine.
One guest does not trouble two hosts.
Not to watch your workmen is to lose your money.
Fortune smiles on the brave, and frowns upon the coward.
Truth will come to light.
Hard heads suffer much.
Sorrow and ill weather come unsent for.
Bought friends are not friends indeed.
Anxious about the shoe, but disregarding the foot. [Careful about external appearances, but regardless of the culture of the mind.].
It is better to lose your eyes than to lose your heart.
He is a weak Horse that may not bear the Saddle.
Only believe in the faith of a woman as you would believe in miracles.
Prevention is better than cure.
Your friend and your enemy think you will never die.
Happiness flies away from those who want it most.
By asking the impossible you will get the best.
Easter so longed for is gone in a day.
A wild goose never reared a tame gosling.
Darkness is the owl's desire.
War ends nothing.
God comes to see without ringing the bell.
Don't judge a man until you have walked a mile in his boots.
Nothing improves the taste of pasta more than a good appetite.
If you search for a faultless woman, you will remain a bachelor.
The sheep separated from the flock is eaten by the wolf.
For the bad weather, a cheerful face.
Mother earth promised to tell her secrets to heaven.
Nothing so visible than what you want to hide.
Treat people in your debt like family... Exploit them.
He should have a heal pow, that cals his neighbour nikkynow.
The mother of the big he-goat has no horns.
He who stands near the woodcutter is likely to be hit by a splinter.
The least boy always carries the biggest fiddle.
The shark who has eaten cannot swim with the shark that is hungry.
Better a handful of dry dates and content therewith than to own the Gate of Peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
Danger should be feared when distant, and braved when present.
Men and women sleep on the same pillow, but they have different dreams.
Sometimes you have to be silent in order to be heard it's easier to criticize than to do better.
The greatest hate springs from the greatest love.
Two's company, three's a crowd.
We always return to our first loves.
It's wise to do what you're born to do.
Sleep has no master.
Wisdom in the man, patience in the wife, brings peace to the house and a happy life.
Pride is the mask of our sins.
Men will always lose the battle against cholera and bureaucracy.
Everyone stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet.
A pitcher that goes oft to the well is broken at last.
Every answer can result in a new question.
If you have a dog to worship you, you must have a cat to ignore you.
Beauty without virtue is like a rose without scent.
The bridge between joy and sorrow is not long. Confidence begets confidence.
Let the devil into church and he will climb into the pulpit.
I'm not me, and [this] horse isn't mine (, and I'm not a cabman)
Never leave without your bat'leth.
He that makes a good war, makes a good peace.
Remember that everyone you ever meet is sure to fear something, to love something, and to have lost something.
Office tests the man.
Bad merchandise is never cheap.
If your guest becomes a cook, your larder will soon be empty.
Law is costly; shake hands and be friends.
The criticism of a blind man.
It is too late to come with water when the house is burnt down.
Enjoy your little while the fool is seeking for more.
The little pot is soonest hot.
You win some, you lose some.
Dawn does not come to awaken a man a second time.
Even gold can be bought too dearly.
Good luck comes in slender currents, misfortune in a rolling tides.
Dine with a stranger, but save your love for your family.
On the way out, the road is rough; returning, it is smooth.
Soon grass, soon hay.
I speak to you, daughter; hear it daughter-in-law.
He that performs his own errand, saves his messanger's hire.
A good year is determined by its spring.
A rich man's joke is not always funny.
Better to die upright than to live on your knees.
If you want praise, die. If you want blame, marry.
Morning is the start of a day's work.
The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon.
Hope for the best, expect the worst.
Bend the tree while it is young.
Make a virtue of necessity.
Physician, heal thyself.
A thousand assignations, one marriage.
God gives every bird its food, but does not throw it into the nest.
No dish pleases all palates alike.
A good reputation is better than a golden girdle.
Basketeer who makes a basket makes a hundred if he's given line and time.
Plough deep whilst sluggards sleep, And you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
When the light is crooked, the shadow is crooked.
It is no child's play when an old woman dances.
He that asks knows one shame; he that doesn't knows two.
A man's own opinion is never wrong.
If God sends you meal, the devil takes the sack.
When ill-luck falls asleep let nobody wake her.
Real fraternity is not about blood, it is about sharing.
Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark.
Who changes country changes luck.
No matter how long the procession, it still ends up in church.
Take all you want, but eat all you take.
If you don't love yourself with passion, you'll love others with it. Passion is conserved.
The greater the hurry, the more obstacles there are.
They took away the mirror from me because I was ugly, and gave it to the blind woman.
The truth is a heavy burden that few care to carry.
A noisy person is harmless.
The old know and the young suspect.
A stern chase is a long chase.
No matter how hungry the vulture, it will never eat grass.
A chicken who isn't pecking has already eaten.
If a pedestrian sees a horse he will want to ride it.
A dog with a bone in his mouth cannot bite you.
Those who begin many things finish but a few.
A hammer breaks glass, but also forms steel. Everything cannot be hung on one nail.
If three people tell you that you are drunk, you better lie down.
The dead are not seen in the company of the living.
It's not enough to know how to ride, you must also know how to fall.
Chance favors the prepared mind.
Not every fault is to be reminded.
Too much prudishness makes the lover sick.
One starts the hare, another catches it.
The worst ewe dungs in the milking-pail.
At Rome one must do the Romans do.
As long as there are lice in the seams of the garment there must be bloodstains on the fingernails.
That which is customary requires no excuse.
You have summer and you have winter -- why, then, be in a hurry?
Beware of french people who pretend to quarrel with each other: they will join together to fight you.
Give to him that has.
Weeds want no sowing.
Like mother, like daughter.
If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold.
He who opens his heart for ambition, closes it for the rest.
Great Spirit, grant that I may not criticize my neighbor until I have walked a mile in his moccasins.
It's normal for a sieve to have holes in it.
A good dinner helps deliberation.
Measure your throat before you swallow a bone.
Misery and poverty are two sisters; discord is their first cousin.
Either Caesar, or nobody.
Pour not water on a drowned mouse.
A leopard cannot change his spots.
Provision in season makes a rich house.
When the bag tears, the shoulders get a rest.
You can mirror something from other people; you can only give out that which is your own.
The miser does not own the gold, it is the gold that owns the miser.
The easiest way to get a divorce is to be married.
A boat doesn't go forward if each one is rowing their own way.
Who knows not how to pray let him go sail the sea.
You never wait too long, when you wait for something good.
A fire cannot be wrapped with paper.
Woe to the man that entrusts his secrets to a ditch.
Charity is a silent prayer.
The cock is a lord on his own dunghill.
The man who counts the bits of food he swallows is never satisfied.
There were once three brothers: a lie, theft and the gallows.
You are beautiful; but learn to work, for you cannot eat your beauty.
Handy as a pocket on a shirt.
A poor man is pulled even by the branch of a tree.
One who drinks from the nile must return.
The goat that climbs up the rock also has to go down.
Do not grab your heel until the ant has bitten you.
Love will find a way.
Life is an onion which one peels crying.
If the inner mind is not deluded, the outer actions will not be wrong.
Watching women is labour in vain.
He must have leave to speak who cannot hold his tongue.
He who has no thirst has no business at the fountain.
If wishes would bide, beggars would ride.
Salt comes from the sea and every bad thing comes from the woman.
Whoever knew you when you were small will not respect you when you're big.
Who sees a mote in other's eye will not see a beam in his own eye.
Death squares all accounts.
Two heads are better than one or when two, not one.
The excessively kind-hearted person becomes a slave.
There is no point in running ones head against the wall.
Late repentance is seldom worth much.
Bourd not with Bawty, fear lest he bite ye.
A mouse that wants to die goes to sniff the cat's nose.
He who wants to be rich in a year comes to the gallows in half a year.
Spinner, spin quietly, so as not to disturb me; I am praying.
At an auction keep your mouth shut.
All language is not in books, nor all thoughts in language.
Heaven is at the feet of mothers.
He that is not a master of something, is a butcher of it.
A woman wearing trousers? What has she got hanging in there?
He who waits for dead men's shoes, may have to go long barefoot.
A drunken may soon be made to dance.
If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.
Many books do not use up words; many words do not use up thoughts.
The miser is always in want.
If tar, hard liquor and sauna do not cure; the disease is fatal.
Comes in at the end with a wet sail.
A pound's worth of tears will not settle a penny's worth of debt.
Tide and time, bides na man.
Until the pebbles
A man cannot undo his past. can zebras wipe away their stripes?
Between man and woman there is little difference, but vive la difference.
He who would thrive must follow the church, the sea, or the king's service.
Happy the generation where the great listen to the small, for it follows that in such a generation the small will listen to the great.
The barking of dogs does not hurt the clouds.
To sow one's wild oats. (16th century)
Who can compare with justice? It creates life.
Everyone knows best where his own shoe pinches.
Better one bird in the hand than ten in the forest.
Here lies the rub.
Cleanliness is out of faith.
When the heat has passed, you forget about the shade of trees.
Unjustly obtained wealth is as snow sprinkled with hot water.
The goat says: "nobody willingly walks to his own death.”.
He who can lick can bite.
From the miseries of others he fears for his own position.
He is ground between two millstones.
Rather one bird in the hand, than ten in the woods.
What! you a hare, and ask for hare-pie!
The beard does not make the philosopher.
What can the enemy do when the friend is cordial.
Everybody must wear out one pair of fool's shoes, if he wear no more.
Love blinds your eyes, marriage opens them wide.
Many a happy colt makes a fine horse.
Choose your company before you sit down [e.g., to drink together].
If man be a river, then woman will be a bridge.
Don't talk about others, they won't talk about you.
The older a fool, the worse he is.
All lay loads on a willing horse.
A nation's treasure is its scholars.
The mouth makes debts, but the arms pay.
Where comes a cow the wiseman lay down, there follows a woman, and where comes a woman follows trouble.
If not today -- when?
Don't raise your club so high; it will only fall on your head.
Time and words can't be recalled, even if it was only yesterday.
When you've been had, you go home.
Truth is the safest lie.
You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
Advice given in the midst of a crowd is loathsome.
A herdsman needs a staff, a door needs a bolt.
Rise early, live soberly, and apply yourself with industry.
A sheep does not lament the death of a goat's kid.
Man's affairs are evaluated only after his coffin is closed.
Laugh at the rice and you will weep for the lentil.
If your wife tells you to throw yourself off a cliff, pray to God that it is a low one.
The narrower the cage, the sweeter the liberty.
A cow is not called dappled unless she has a spot.
Even the elephant can fan off flies with its short tail.
One who runs will also fall.
Bad luck can't be dated.
The ring of gold is never so red that it is not dispensed with for breads.
If only one race has to be chosen, why the Jews?
Priest is like a signpost, shows where to go, but stays there himself.
Both the hunted and the hunter rely on God.
The best soup is made of old meat.
Who lies with dogs shall rise up with fleas.
Kings matthias is dead, justice is lost.
If you open the eyes of a blind man he wants to go back to the darkness.
A dog which refuses a bone is not alive.
Better a handful of dried figs and content with that, than to own the gate of peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel.
The words you say to tell the truth are as important as the decision to be truthful.
Better go without medicine than call in an unskilled physician.
When the sea turned into honey, the beggar lost his spoon.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Dwarf on a giant's shoulder sees farther of the two.
Better to return from half-way than to take a wrong road.
In the end it will be known who ate the bacon.
A Sunday's child never dies of the plague.
You cannot catch a tiger cub unless you enter the tiger's den.
Extinguish the spark before the [the house is on] fire, deflect the trouble before [its] strike.
Wisdom is folly unless a wise man guides it.
There is always someone who loves you, and someone who hates you.
Kill the chicken to frighten the monkey.
Laughter cannot bring back what anger has driven away.
There is nothing hidden between heaven and earth.
Anger is a bad counsellor.
A ship on the beach is a lighthouse to the sea.
Under a powerful general there are no feeble soldiers.
Slowly but surely, the bird builds its nest.
The sky's stone does not strike the nettle.
One cow breaks the fence, and a dozen leap it.
Go abroad and you'll hear news of home.
In Russia every day is of thirty hours.
Many dogs kill a hare, no matter how many turns it makes.
Let justice be done though the heavens fall.
A baby on its mother's back doesn't know the journey is long.
A man that is lean, not from hunger, is harder than brass.
Kiils the victim and walks in his wake.
Silly sheep, where one goes, all go.
As the crow is made for stewing the dog is made for kicking.
Rivers and mountains may change; human nature, never.
Cyrillic: Нема ватре без дима. - Latin: Nema vatre bez dima.
A stick at the neighbours cannot drive out a leopard at your home.
To be wealthy and demand more is an abomination to a god.
He'll no let grass grow at his heels.
Everybody cries for his own dead.
Sparrows cannot be caught by beating a drum.
Night was created so that we might consider what we did during the day.
It is the fool's sheep that break loose twice.
An overcrowded chicken farm produce fewer eggs.
Every family has at least one black sheep.
Nothing so good but it might have been better.
Better to travel hopefully than to arrive.
It is difficult to trap an old fox.
The quince is for fiancees who are fighting and the azarole for good people.
'tis never too late to mend.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
The wind will let us neither sail nor stay.
The problem with the palace attendant isn't how to steal the king's drums but where to play them from.
You know who your friend and your enemy are during difficult moments.
Even the hen looks toward heaven when she drinks.
The jar broke and the wine spilled.
Wisdom can be found travelling.
He who revealeth his secret maketh himself a slave.
Fire and faggot are but sad reformers.
Peralvillo justice: hang a man first and try him afterwards.
It is the wife who knows her husband.
Slowly but surely the excrement of foreign poets will come to your village.
The devil is always at the elbow of an idle man.
Oppression makes a wise man mad.
For no man could be blessed without the acceptance of his own head.
No one should take in an eating pawn.
The skin is nearer than the shirt.
When the white man is about to leave a garden for good, he wrecks it.
Who is hurry, goes walking.
No matter how the wind howls, the mountain will not bow to it.
Childhood shows the man as morning shows the day.
Many hands are quickly ready with the work.
The skin creaks according to the country.
None so deaf as those who would not hear.
Three women and a goose make a market.
It's hard to know the quality of a person, or a watermelon.
It is the beautiful bird which gets caged.
If a man puts a cord around his neck, God will provide someone to pull it.
Every cat has a proper tail. Over there is a cat with no tail.
There are many who prefer to despise and belittle that which is beyond their reach.
A blind man may sometimes hit the mark.
When a dog bites you, do not bite back.
The mill does not grind without water.
If you chase two rabbits [at the same time], you won't catch either of them.
Half a tale is enough to a wise man.
After stuffing pears within, drink old wine until they swim.
No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim.
Make not twa mewes of ane daughter.
All things change and we with them.
If you're very unkind today don't expect favours tomorrow.
Тоо many midwives deliver a sickly baby.
Like a person, even the moon grows and vanishes in a transitional process.
When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it.
The worst wheel creaks most.
Eating tough meat is always harder for a toothless lion.
Cutting the ears of a mule will not make him a horse.
Living life is not like crossing a meadow.
All clouds do not rain.
If the master gets drunk it is an honorable drunkenness; if the servant does it is evidence of his mean disposition.
Speak of the Devil and he appears.
I have rather an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
Good brotherhood is the best wealth.
Drunkenness makes some men fools, some beasts, and some devils.
Take together, it will not be heavy.
If an offense has hurt you too much, leave it, my friend, for a future time.
It is a stupid goose that listens to the fox preach.
He who is outside the door has already a good part of his journey behind him.
When the calf is drowned they cover the well.
Giving just a crumb to the hungry is worth more than giving lunch to the satisfied.
Braying of an ass or barking of a dog, is not heard in Heaven.
It's good to be forward, but bad to be too impudent.
An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.
Priests, cousins and pigeons. The first two are not good to marry. The Last two, serve only to filth the house.
He loses least in a quarrel who keeps his tongue in cheek.
A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
No matter if you eat a little or a lot of garlic, the smell is just as strong.
The farmer hopes for rain, the walker hopes for sunshine, and the gods hesitate.
Leave a jest when it pleases lest it turn to earnest.
You don't need a dog to catch a lame hare.
Love is too rare to be lost on jealousy.
Having a good wife and rich cabbage soup, seek not other things.
As you brew, so you shall bake.
The chicken also knows when it's morning, but still watches cock.
The next mile is the only one a person really has to make.
Don't kick a dog when he is down.
The kettle smuts the frying-pan.
All are not maidens that wears bare hair.
He is no great heir that inherits not his ancestor's virtues.
A stone moved often gathers no moss.
The best of friends must part.
You won't get sick if you have plenty of work.
You can't blame a dentist for looking down at the mouth.
Praying kneads no dough.
When the danger is past God is cheated.
When the sun shines is the time to make up hay.
Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
Words hurt more than swords.
No rearing, no manners.
The deepest waters make the least noise.
Keep your friends close but remember to keep your enemies closer.
Turnabout is fair play.
The strong man's sport is the sickly man's death.
The storm of reeds is loud till you go through them.
Great fools must have great bells.
If fortune calls, offer him a seat.
No partridge is small when it claws the soil.
A good life is the best sermon.
They made the garlic a bride, its smell did not come out for forty days.
Women will believe any lie that is wrapped in praise.
Praise the youth and they will come.
A threat does not lengthen your sword.
Recognize gladly great exploits, but wait a while first.
One happiness scatters a thousand sorrows.
If the shoe fits, put it on.
He who gossips and he who listens to it deserve to be thrown to the dogs.
For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life.
A lion can run faster than we can, but we can run farther.
To err is human.
Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house than to have one single enemy inside it.
The devil never misses the bus.
Better droping than dry.
Tired feet always say that the path is long.
Happiness is like a perfume, you cannot pour it all on others without allowing a few drops to fall on yourself.
Cover the ears and steal the bell.
Many rats cannot all at once dig a hole for their home.
A beautiful funeral does not necessarily lead to paradise.
There are no beautiful prisons or ugly loved ones.
Go to friends for advice, woman for love, strangers for charity and relatives for nothing.
Men shut their doors against the setting sun.
As the tree falls, it will lie.
The best place for criticism is in front of your mirror.
He that lives in hope dances to an ill tune.
A man who throws stones at himself is not to be pitied.
Not everything on the body that swells is a boil.
Saints appear to fools.
Better once to see than many times to hear.
Do not judge your neighbor until you walk two moons in his moccasins.
The devil hides behind the cross.
Each child brings his own blessing into the world.
He who has none hates those that have much.
The crow that mimics a cormorant gets drowned.
Ingratitude is the mother of every vice.
You do not always have to believe what you see.
Still waters are deep.
For lack of men they made my father a justice.
Must is a hard nut.
Lie has short legs.
Here today, gone tomorrow.
The goat is not big in a cow town.
Sleep faster, we need the pillows.
The heart is half a prophet.
I am willing but unable.
Handle the pudding while it's hot.
It is precisely the uncertainty of this world that makes life worth living.
A sauna - the poor man's pharmacy.
Saying well causes a laugh; doing well produces silence.
A truth-telling woman has few friends.
Though the sky belongs to the bird it can't fly when it's raining.
The hand often travels to the part where the pain is.
Love lives in palaces as well as in thatched cottages.
No flying from fate.
Put something off for one day, and ten days will pass.
A thimbleful of experience is worth a tubful of knowledge.
No fat mouse in a widow's house.
Money rules the world.
Our elders quote the cock as saying that "it would not be good if one becomes the only person in the world, and that is why they crow every morning to show their number".
When the cook and the steward fall out, we hear who stole the butter.
A child of a year old sucks milk from the heel.
Who draws his sword against his prince must throw away his scabbard.
An ill win penny will cast down a pound.
He, who is afraid of death, loses his life.
If your motive is good, a farting donkey won't harm you.
The lord tests those he loves.
The hen's eyes are where her eggs are.
He may lie safely who comes from afar.
Not only of bread lives a man.
Wherever Burundi points the finger, a house is built.
Do what I say well, and not what I do ill.
Better a steady drip than a sudden deluge.
If you are a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs.
A gentle breeze blowing in the right direction is better than a pair of strong oars.
Slander not the dead.
The swans will not sing till the jackdaws are quiet.
Wealth conquered Rome after Rome had conquered the world.
Haste manages all things badly.
However swift a man, he will not outstrip his shadow.
Since the wine is drawn it must be drunk.
He who waits dies, he who makes others wait lives.
It is hard to pay for porridge that has been eaten.
He'll gang mad on a horse wha's proud on a pownie.
He is a fool who loses the flight for the leap.
A spark produces its brightest glow just before it dies out.
Patience is a flower that grows not in everyone's garden.
An occasion lost cannot be redeemed.
The roses fall, the thorns remain.
By good means or bad.
Let him that pays the reckoning choose the lodging.
A stick one bends while it is still green.
Beggars mounted ride their horses to death.
The woman who gives is seldom good; the woman who accepts is in the power of the giver.
He who lives on hope, dies of hunger.
It is love that makes the impossible possible.
Idleness ruins the constitution.
Forgetting your native tongue means forgetting your native country.
On the road between the homes of friends, grass does not grow.
A sweaty foot seldom comes alone.
It's a brave bird that makes its nest in the cat's ear.
When anger blinds the eyes, truth disappears.
When you can't find peace within yourself, there is no use looking for it somewhere else.
You need to bait the hook to catch the fish.
A small but excellent party, said the man, he was drinking alone.
My father rode a camel, I shall ride a pick-up.
Smoke in your own country is purer than fire in a foreign land.
Peace and a well-built house cannot be bought too dearly.
Do not change horses in the middle of the river.
Who is afraid of wolf should not go into the woods.
An hour in the morning is worth two at night.
The liar is quarrelsome. He always lies. He always slanders. Treacherous! Malicious! Shifty-eyed!
When spherical bodies can unite and embrace, then there will be friendship amongst the avaricious.
Authority has no partner.
Love is an excuse for its own faults.
Don't use your hairdryer in the shower, you prat.
Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache.
The buyer first disparages.
Do not be like a miser who saves for those who will bury him.
See to it that you have many books and many friends -- but be sure they are good ones.
The tortoise said it wants to box, but its hand is too short.
An ounce of practice is worth a pound of precept.
Health and gaiety foster beauty.
One swallow does not make a spring.
Out o' debt, out o' danger.
A sow may find an acorn as well as a hog.
When the cucumber is small, you can warp it easier.
Half a brain is enough for him who says little.
In the ocean, one does not need to sow water.
A woman who runs holding her breast has got nothing pursuing her.
There is no flavour in a swallowed morsel.
The lame jackass enjoys the journey.
What is play to the strong is death to the weak.
It takes two blows to make a battle.
Ye may be heard where ye're no seen.
Money wins the battle, not the long arm.
A tree that has grown bent for thirty years cannot be straightened in one year.
Every man must walk in his own calling.
No one can claim they'll be here tomorrow.
A man is shy in another man's corner.
Expect the worst from your enemy so that you won't be disappointed.
When necessity speaks, it demands.
The more a ball is struck, the more it rebounds.
It's for her own good that the cat purrs.
Fast as the hare runs, the greyhound outruns her, since he catches her.
They whip the cat, if our mistress does not spin.
Our parents planted so we ate, and we plant for our children to eat.
The child will grow, his clothes will not.
A hasty person misses the sweet things.
Give a hint to the man of sense, and consider the thing done.
He who looks only at heaven may easily break his nose on earth.
Wha sweet nanny-goat a go run him belly.
Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old.
With a piece of bread in your hand you'll find paradise under a pine tree.
You've seen many Komo, but you haven't seen the wild beast.
A white tooth has a bloody root.
Your memory can let you down like it did to a finn who was carving a wooden spoon.
De devil does find work for evil hands to do.
White men have too many chiefs.
Promises may make friends, but 'tis performances that keep them.
When you mention 'dog,' you should get a stick.
As long as there is no wind, the tree won't blow.
Don't sell the skin till you've caught the bear.
Idleness is the devil's bolster.
But mortal bliss will never come sincere Pleasure may lead, but grief blow brings up the rear.
Human learns as long as lives.
Ability will enable a man to get to the top, but character will keep him from falling.
Scratch a lover and find an enemy.
Hälsan tiger still.
How beautiful that tree is, even when stripped by the wind !
A little truth makes the whole lie pass.
Where the cattle are, there the wolf shall die.
One muddy buffalo makes the whole herd dirty.
Conversation ministers to a mind diseased.
Beware of him who has nothing to lose.
Speaking, though speechless, it exercises dominion over the mind.
Many asses have only two legs.
A dog is wiser than a woman; it does not bark at its master.
Mountain does not meet mountain but man does meet man.
The earth has ears, news has wings.
God help the sheep when the wolf is judge.
Poverty is a shirt of fire.
Every man is mad on some point.
Words will not do for my aunt, for she does not put faith even in deeds.
A calf that is sucking does not bellow.
Fresh air impoverishes doctors.
Time fleeth away without delay.
Better an iron dictatorship than a golden anarchy.
If we reject the chaff, we may easily lose the kernel.
If god doesnt take a lawyer, the devil will haul him away.
There is no use in saying, I will not go such a way, nor drink of such a water.
Like a collier's sack, bad without and worse within.
Don't cross the brook for water.
A good purpose is like a doctor and evil purpose corrupts.
If the wind does not blow, the leaves do not move.
It's ill speaking between a full man and a fasting.
He who judges others condemns himself.
A lamb [sheep] away from the herd will be devoured by wolves.
Some cut lang whangs aff ither folk's leather.
Old love and wood will burn as soon as they get the chance.
He is dead that is faultless.
Take not your sickle to another man's corn.
To persecute the unfortunate is like throwing stones on one fallen into a well.
He puts on the right/wrong horse.
He that shows his money shows his judgment.
A sheep's wool sky means wind's to follow, either a Levant or a West wind or a Sirocco.
Catch fish two hands.
A gross belly does not produce a refined mind.
The words of the elders do not lock all the doors, they leave the right door open.
A fat kitchen is next door to poverty.
He that does not lie, does not come of good blood.
The greatest hero is one who has control over his desires.
God is a father, happiness is a stepfather.
Despise your enemy and you will soon be beaten.
Don't believe your enemy even when he's telling the truth.
No one loathes the smell of himself.
The words of the elderly are as sweet as honey, but if you do not listen they become as sour as bile.
Not all who fold their hands, are praying.
Leave the spool to the artisan.
Joy surfeited turns to sorrow.
Never drop the friends you made on the way up. You may need them on the way down.
Rags to riches to rags.
For a stubborn ass a stubborn driver.
The sky is of the same color wherever you go.
Virtue is its own reward.
His illness is more mental than bodily.
A boat cannot go forward if each rows his own way.
Pride is the mask we make of our faults.
The ones that matter most are the children. They are the true human beings.
A danger foreseen is half avoided.
The hardest person to wake up is the person who is already awake.
Marriages are all happy; its having breakfast together that causes all the trouble.
A wise man cares not for what he cannot have.
Dip the pitcher into the water enough and it finally breaks.
There are more hands than heads.
The later comer is ill lodged.
You can't serve God and Mammon.
What you do not wish for yourself, do not do it to your fellowmen either.
If two ride on a horse, one must ride behind.
Don't change horses while crossing a stream.
You cant be in the town and be in the country too.
Where'er an ass is crown'd to fame, both town and country bear the shame.
Movement is a blessing.
We lose the certain things, while we seek the uncertain ones.
Before we went to churches and bars - now we go to clubs and cinemas.
Better one living word than a hundred dead ones.
If Ali is the camel-driver, he knows where to rest his camel.
A saddle fits more backs than one.
When you are an anvil, bear; when you are a hammer, strike.
A man who has both feet planted firmly in the air can be safely called a liberal.
If the thunder is not loud, the peasant forgets to cross himself.
Listen with each ear, then to judgment.
Sloth is the beginning of vice.
You can't hide the smoke when the house is burning.
He who maligns you in your absence is afraid of your presence.
He would be a good one to send for death.
Evil must be driven out by evil.
Nobody can slip out of his own skin.
The hunchback does not see his own hump, but sees his companion's.
A meowing cat catches no mice.
When the stomach is full the heart is glad.
More belongs to dancing than a pair of dancing-shoes.
The worse luck now, the better another time.
There as many ways of making a living as seeds of grass.
The child is sadly hurt that doesn't tell his illness.
Never mistake chicken shit for an egg.
There is no better sale than when you give a true friend what he needs.
We find much ingratitude, and create more.
A king's chaff is worth more than other men's corn.
The more you flatter a fool, the more seriously he plays his game.
Life is not a continuum of pleasant choices, but of inevitable problems that call for strength, determination, and hard work.
Children and fools must not play with edged tools.
He who eats alone dies alone.
Eggs cannot be unscrambled.
Once grape gathering has finished, you have to hang up the basket.
If the camel once get his nose in a tent, the body will soon follow.
It is difficult to hide what everybody knows.
If a man's heart be impure, all things will appear hostile to him.
Content lodges oftener in cottages than palaces.
Hang a German, even if he is a good man.
A crazy father and mother make sensible children.
Truth has always a sure bottom.
The brave man lives until the coward wants.
Keep well with your neighbors, whether right or wrong.
Fear is no obstacle to death.
Love rules his kingdom without a sword.
If someone is walking towards you, you don't need to tell him "come here.”.
A house that is not seen by the sun, is visited often by the doctor.
You can wash your body but not your soul.
The dog learns to swim when the water reaches his ears.
Whoever feeds the wolf in the winter will be eaten by him in the spring.
Learning Zen is a phenomenon of gold and dung. Before you understand it, it's like gold; after you understand it, it's like dung.
We judge of the present from the past.
As lang lives the merry man as the sad.
If a fox is preaching, then beware of your geese.
When glory comes, memory departs.
The cradle is rocked but the baby is pinched.
Even if it does not benefit you, it will not harm you.
Even a tower a hundred yards tall has still its foundations on the ground.
He who lives by hope will die by hunger.
With patience and a bit of spittle, the elephant picks up the ant so little.
Meat and mass never hindered man.
Step after step the ladder is ascended.
Where the cock is the hen does not crow.
One story is good till another is told.
A leopard is such an elusive animal.
Both cheap and angry.
Precept guides, but example draws.
When fools go to market the huckster gets money.
One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food.
One rotten apple in the basket infects the whole.
It is better to keep peace than to make peace.
Play, play, with the beard of the father also play?
A guest should not cause his host's demise. When the guest is ready to leave, his host should not have given him a hunch-back.
Who has not is not.
The child is capable of splitting open the snail, not the tortoise.
Distant hills look green.
A bustling mother makes a slothful daughter.
May your friendship not be like a stone: if it breaks you cannot put the pieces together. May it be like iron: when it breaks, you can weld the pieces back together.
The good speech of an ass is better than the bad word of a prophet.
A ship with two captains sinks.
Whoever the cap fits, takes it.
A slave does not choose his master.
Lean liberty is better than fat slavery.
It is good living under the shadow of the belfry.
Corsairs against corsairs, there is nothing to win but empty barrels.
Eating and scratching want but a beginning.
A little stone may upset a large cart.
A chameleon acquires gold.
A child without a mother is like a fish in shallow water.
A misty morning does not signify a cloudy day.
There is more to be feared from the doctor than the disease.
We cannot direct the wind, but we can adjust the sails.
Homes among homes and grapevines among grapevines.
The water goes, the sand remains; The person dies, the memory remains.
Barack Obama, Speech at Arlington, Virginia.
In time of prosperity consider how you will bear adversity.
A dog will defend its territory though it's friendly.
If you lose one, there are a thousand more to choose from.
The friar preached against stealing when he had a pudding in his sleeve.
Latin hides the stupidity of the priest.
A man of character is resistant to temptation.
The mouth of an elderly man is without teeth, but never without words of wisdom.
This basket that leaves and returns unfilled is not nice.
Malice is aye mindfu'.
To a man who only has a hammer in his tool kit, every problem looks like a nail.
No wind is too cold for lovers.
Forgiveness hides a pleasure that you can't get back from revenge.
The best things in life are free.
He who makes himself honey, will be eaten by the flies.
Christ is powerful, but more powerful is destiny.
See that you tie so that you can untie.
Don't butter the skillet before catching the fish.
By hook or by crook.
Every law is broken to become a king.
If there is only one earring among seven daughters, there will always be a quarrel on festival days.
Love from someone who is bad is worse than his hatred.
There goes more than one ass to market.
Adversity brings wisdom.
Oh old hyena eat me without making excuses.
When neighbours quarrel, lookers-on are more apt to add fuel than water.
From the woods a beautiful pheasant, from the sea a beautiful moray eel, from the river a den eel, from the cage a beautiful chicken.
Take an oath only for the hand you slept on.
You have married a beauty? So much the worse for you.
More than one war has been caused by a single word.
A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches.
Patience passe science.
Cows can catch no rabbits.
All cats are alike grey at night.
The wound caused by a sword can eventually be healed; the hurt resulted from vicious remarks can never be undone.
One foe is too many and a hundred friends are too few.
Let your head be more than a funnel to your stomach.
If one does not plow, there will be no harvest.
When you need to make an important decision, never do it alone, choose the right people.
Those that do you a very ill deed will never forgive you.
They are not all men who wear trousers.
The hole invites the thief.
They have taken the cow by the horns in order to milk it better.
Who has convenience and doesn't seize it, tie him to a stall and give him straw.
If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's.
Falseness often lurks beneath fair hair.
Give me money, not advice.
Desire of God and desire of man are two.
Looks often deceive.
Similar to a bee: in their mouths they carry sweet honey, and in their tails poison.
The prosperity of fools shall destroy them.
A timid or cowardly person may be raised against the most valuable and useful things.
The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything.
There is luck in leisure.
When a miser dies, the heirs feel as happy as when they kill a pig.
Don't spit into the wind.
It is possible to kill a man but it is impossible to kill his name.
In shallow holes moles make fools of dragons.
The old man has his death before his eyes; the young man behind his back.
Every bird thinks its own nest beautiful.
Better be mad with all the world than wise alone.
Youth does not mind where it sets its foot.
The luck of idle men sits next to them.
He who is born in jail loves jail.
The justice of God is better than the justice of the world.
The banana looks withered, but it has an excellent flavor.
If you want to live to be old you need to start early.
Three people can keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
Hope is grief's best music.
If the head aches all the members of the body suffer.
It is not enough to know how to steal, one must know also how to conceal.
Love is in blood not in talking.
Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond.
Don't do all you can, spend all you have, believe all you hear, or tell all you know.
Little beard, little modesty.
Old sin makes new shame.
The hanging fruit is never too heavy for the creeper to bear.
It is too late for the bird to scream when it is caught.
Without a green switch the ox and the donkey won't obey.
Wha mout seh, han' can' do.
Several repeated visits to the mud pit enable the wasp to build its house.
A dog which steals leaves its puppies a bad name.
Who lies with dogs rises with fleas.
The coward is always in danger.
Talk of the devil and he'll appear.
The buttocks never mistake the ground.
There is nothing so secret but it transpires.
You can pull back your leg, but not your committed word.
On the first of march, the crows begin to search.
It is dangerous to eat cherries with the great, they throw the stones at your head.
Happiness opens the arms and closes the eyes.
Every delay has its blessings.
The poorhouse is full of honest people.
Putting the cart before the horse.
Anger begins with folly, and ends with repentance.
Youth likes to wander.
It does not always rain when a pig squeals.
Self-love nobody else's love.
Union is strength.
Good memories last long, bad ones last longer.
Walk on your own feet.
You can lock your door from a thief, but not from a damned liar.
All are not friends who smile on you.
In the shallowest waters, the ugliest fish swim.
Every invalid is a physician.
Double charging will break a cannon.
He who goes to bed with dogs will get up with fleas.
Water in august: oil and ferment.
No man's religion ever survived his morals.
Be resolved and the thing is done.
The fish that dirties the water will forever swim in dirty water.
June damp and warm does the farmer no harm.
When a cat goes out for a walk, the mice throw a party.
Old age is not as honorable as death, but most people want it.
I only have my nails to scratch with and my feet to walk on.
Big men are not the only kind that can reap a harvest.
Many irons in the fire, pare must cool.
The dog that is going to bite does not show its teeth.
Our Homeland "Ons Heemecht” is the national anthem of Luxembourg.
Memory slips, letters remain.
There is no worse joke than a true one.
One with more firewood than you, has more ash than you.
Scholars talk books, butchers talk pigs.
Ravens do not peck out raven's eyes.
Never does a woman lie in a more cunning way than when she tells the truth to someone who doesn't believe her.
Better the rod that bends than one that breaks.
He that chases another does not sit still himself.
The post of honor is the post of danger.
A king's son is not nobler than his food.
I have a cow in the sky, but cannot drink her milk.
A sow may whistle, though it has an ill mouth for it.
What the lion cannot manage to do the fox can.
If there is only bread and onions, still have a happy face.
Not all goodness brings sweetness.
He who wants to be rich in a year is hanged at six months' end.
Like grape, like bud. Like father, like son.
All covet, all lose.
Better a chigging mother, nor a riding father.
Practice does not make perfect but a perfect practice makes perfect.
Marriage is like a groundnut, you have to crack it to see what is inside.
Quick and well don't agree.
A blind man's stroke, which raises a dust from beneath water.
Every word has three definitions and three interpretations.
A jug that has been mended lasts two hundred years.
Kings will find armies, and the world men.
Never let any mechanical device know that you are in a hurry.
The mule wasn't born wild, the stick made her that way.
A slip of the foot and you may soon recover, but a slip of the tongue you may never get over.
Everything goes by favour and cousinship.
Upon a glad heart oil is poured out of which no one knows.
Much talking does not make you a leader.
Better than the ignorant are those who read books; better still are those who retain what they read; even better are those who understand it; the best of all are those who go to work.
Be a lion at home and a fox abroad.
A mad dog bites anything except itself.
Silence is the best answer to the stupid.
When in the city of the pretenders. Be pretending.
A loan is a brother when taken, a nephew when paid back.
The force which a body at rest exercises on a body in motion impinging upon it.
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
The best trees are the most beaten.
A person consists of his faith. Whatever is his faith, even so is he.
When birds aren't making a mess it's a sign that it's been a bad year.
Deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own.
Honor a child and he will honor you.
A wild dog is best eaten when clubbed to death.
Necessity could make a thief.
The absent one will not be the heir.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
If the hair was precious, wouldn't grow on the ass.
An empty sack cannot stand up alone.
The best pears fall into the pigs' mouths.
Blood is inherited; character is earned.
When you see a rat running in a fire then what it's running away from is hotter than fire.
Us and russians – two hundred millions.
The ant had wings to her hurt.
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.
When the elephant is slain all the tribes gather together to eat of it.
No time for your health today, no health for your time tomorrow.
Yorkshire born and Yorkshire bred, strong in the arm and weak in the head.
Whoever is ashamed to sleep with his wife will never have children.
Fortune is blind, but not invisible.
Free advice is seldom cheap.
When the leopard is away, his cubs are eaten.
Out of a devil's egg there can only come a devil.
In the eyes of a lover a pock-marked face is one with pretty dimples.
The fox never found a surer messenger than himself.
Lend your money and lose your friend.
Hang the young thief, and the old one will not steal.
There is no use in wiping your butt before you defecate.
One good deed has many claimants.
The charitable give out at the door, and God puts in at the window.
When the well is dry, we know what it's worth.
Where there is no wine, we need medicine.
Attack is the best defense.
A educated woman finds few suitors.
I am standing at the Earth's center.
The flea sinned, the reed-mat got the beating.
Before one cooks, one must have the meat.
Every law has a loophole.
It is hard to find a pin in the dark.
Well fed but ill taught.
Learn to rise up out of the enigmatic egg in the hidden land.
Sometimes even the intestine and the stomach disagree.
No matter how short a man is, he will always see the sky.
A man who uses force is afraid of reasoning.
The account of the donkey is different from that of the donkey-man.
Better slip with the foot than with the tongue.
Two happy days are seldom brothers.
If a young man is not prudent in seeking what killed his father, what killed his father may also kill him.
Where there is smoke there is fire.
I have so much to do that I am going to bed.
Heart with pepper, soul with garlic.
If you want to live and thrive, let the spider run alive.
He that shows his passion, tells his enemy where he may hit him.
Margulis, Kholodnaya (2000). Russian-English dictionary of proverbs and sayings. McFarland. p. 22. ISBN 0786407034.
He is a bad workman who cannot talk of work.
Ill-timed laughter is a dangerous evil.
He who has no pond must not breed crocodiles.
It's impossible to awaken a man who is pretending to be asleep.
Unlucky in gambling, lucky in love.
A drawing man clutches at straw.
It is the duty of friends mutually to correct each other.
He that has a muckle nose thinks ilk ane speaks o't.
A man who shoots his arrows as he makes them does not realize when he has shot a whole sheaf.
Do not argue with a fool, for people will not be able to tell between the two of you.
He who has daughters is always a shepherd.
The wine-skin has its reasons for smelling of pitch.
The poor is poor in the hell as well, he must carry firewood under the rich people.
Whilst the tall maid is stooping, the little one sweeps the house.
For tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it today.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a sword.
The man who lives only by hope will die with despair.
The talker talks and causes death in his family.
Put off for one day and ten days will pass by.
He who always thinks it is too soon, is sure to come too late.
Everything wears away from use.
Everybody must live.
Advise none to marry or go to war.
Keep five yards from a carriage, ten yards from a horse, and a hundred yards from an elephant; but the distance one should keep from a wicked man cannot be measured.
A tree falls the way it leans.
There is nothing in the world so poor as going to hell.
Whatever you undertake let it be proportioned to your powers.
The man of courage never lost it.
Use people who have something to gain, not people with nothing to lose.
The widow's sons have not tears.
Better an empty purse than an empty head.
A dog which has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow.
Stares like a monkey from the raisintree.
It is bread that keeps one warm, not fur.
Winter is summer's heir.
He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet.
A Good son needs no inheritance, the bad needs none.
One to-day is worth two to-morrows.
Hunger makes the big fish come out of hiding in the great river.
He who warns, a good friend is.
Feel free to jabber, Emelya-it's your week.
It is not for the swan to teach eaglets to sing.
Closer than the closeness of the teeth to the tongue.
He makes his home where the living is best.
He that won't listen, must feel.
If the lion's skin cannot, the fox's shall.
Who steals that also lies.
Credit is suspicion asleep.
Do not stand in a dangerous place trusting in miracles.
The payment adorns the debt.
Deceive not thy physician, confessor, or lawyer.
He who is close to you knows more about you than he who is far away.
Wrath often consumes what goodness husbands.
The sooty oven mocks the black chimney.
Wealth is but dung, useful only when spread about.
Many a friend was lost through a joke, but none was ever gained so.
The shadow should be the same length as the body.
We can accustom ourselves to anything.
Tell me who your father is, and I'll tell you who you are.
Every feast has its guest of honour.
Went to Haj while pilgrims are coming back.
Early sleep and early wake up, gives health and makes you grow.
With time, even a bear can learn to dance.
Men get wealth and women keep it.
The eyes are the window of the soul.
'tis not for everyone to catch a salmon.
A handful of trade, a handful of gold.
An unrequested excuse is a self accusation.
A middle of the roader is one who is apt to have trouble on the one hand and also on the other.
Ignorance is a voluntary misfortune.
All cats are not to be set down for witches.
He who fears fire cannot be a leader.
We must act peace, live peace and live in peace.
Cut duels in every Town.
Love grows with the square of the distance.
Two skinny people don't fry.
Only the owner can free his home from mice.
A good conversation is better than a good bed.
Time flies with hasty step.
Who is out of sight is out of mind.
While there's nothing to do in April, let out the herd to pasture with all the sheep.
Don't trust a man wearing a better suit than your own.
His pocket knife opens in my pocket.
Water is colourless and tasteless but you can live on it longer than eating food.
When the mouse laughs at the car, there is a hole nearby.
Don't build a new ship out of old wood.
The cuckoo comes in April, and stays the month of May; sings a song at midsummer, and then goes away.
Your hometown is like a small fatherland.
The more you add, the worse it gets.
I have no sword; I make no mind my sword.
The fault is great in proportion to him who commits it.
The hearth in our house is warmer than our neighbor's.
Great doubts deep wisdom. Small doubts little wisdom.
Every one is a preacher under the gallows.
Along silence followed by mighty noise.
Young folks think old folks to be fools, but old folks know young folks to be fools.
Evil falls on him who goes to seek it.
There is nothing like leather.
The sleeping fox catches no chickens.
The "Deutschlandlied” (Song of Germany is the title of the national anthem of Germany.
Abundance, like want, ruins many.
The baby who always gets carried will never learn to walk.
The evening crowns the days.
The mouth is stupid after eating it forgets who gave it the food.
Locks can not be made from good iron, soldiers are not made out of good people.
Better to marry a neighbor than a stranger.
A lizard on a cushion will still seek leaves.
Either live or die with honour.
The urine of one dog will not pollute the ocean.
Firewood yields ash.
Whoever drinks on credit gets drunk more quickly.
A physician's neighbor is never a doctor.
Better alone than in bad company.
When you die, you rejoice, and the world cries.
Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop.
Even if the sky falls on you, there is a hole that you can escape from.
Catch the bird but watch for the wave.
One sleeps like one makes his bed.
Hit two flies with one smack.
The first breath is the beginning of death.
A satisfied man is happy even if he is poor; a dissatisfied man is sad even if he is rich.
The less you know, the more soundly you sleep.
The lucky man has a daughter for his first-born.
All the hours wound you, the last one kills.
He who would leap far must first take a long run.
Better be a cursed man than he who curses.
I murmured because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no feet.
Judge men by their deeds, not be their creeds.
A good horse never lacks a saddle.
If you want to live in peace, neither borrow nor lend.
A person stands next to a shade not next to words.
Whatever the thoughts of the dervish, so are his formulas.
From to-morrow till to-morrow time goes a long journey.
A long voyage begins with just one step.
Give a man rope enough and he will hang himself.
Whoever got clothes hang out does look fuh rain.
A woman strong in flounces is weak in the head.
Destiny often withholds the crown from the very person who deserves it.
How can man be remembered when the giant trees in the forest are soon forgotten.
In old men there is no taste, in young no insight.
The tears of strangers are only water.
There are none so deaf as those who will not hear advice.
Boil stones in butter, and you may sip the broth.
A starving crocodile is never pleasant.
One blind man followed the other and they both fell into the ditch.
One scabby sheep spoils a flock.
When you work with anxiety during the day, you'll sit up at night with your thoughts.
Thunder clouds do not always give rain.
Mony sma's mak a great.
The pardon may be more severe than the penalty.
Haste is the mother of imperfection.
The hoer hoes in his own vineyard.
A wife is a luxury... A smart accountant a necessity.
He who waits for a chance may wait for a long time.
Time makes hay.
You cannot sew buttons on your neighbor's mouth.
Silence condemns more effectively than loud accusations.
Wo ät Hätz van vol es, doh lööf d'r Monk van övver.
He who doth the injury never forgives the injured man.
Better badly mounted than proud on foot.
Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still.
The great tree chooses where to grow and we find it there, so it is with the greatness in men.
Gray hair is a sign of age, not of wisdom.
A man without reason is a beast in season.
A stout bearded woman always bears something malicious.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
She is fond of him–on the side where the pocket hangs.
A man who has one finger pointing at another has three pointing towards himself.
Every art requires the open person.
Quiet horses kick the hardest.
Death rides a fast camel.
Fear less, hope more, eat less, chew more, whine less, breathe more.
Acorns compare their height with each other.
Finish what your start.
The burnt child shuns the fire.
A child's face is his mirror.
He need not search his pockets for words.
The only victory over love is flight.
Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law can be cooked together but they will never be tender.
There are only two types of Chinese -- those who give bribes and those who take them.
Both water and fire need to be treated with respect.
Не that fears you present will hate you absent.
Use your time as best you can, keeping the hoe and oxen ready.
Blushing is the paint of good habits.
Hyena says that men are wise because they know how to hold a firebrand.
The caged bird dreams of clouds.
Naught's a naught and figger's a figger – all for the white man and none for the nigger.
No matter how full the river, it still wants to grow.
He who stands still in the mud sticks in it.
Flattery butters no parsnips.
Flowing water never goes bad; our door hubs never gather termites.
Going to law is losing a cow for the sake of a cat.
Friendship should be unpicked, not rent.
Do not hide your light under a bushel.
A great man's entreaty is a command.
Anger is a bad counselor.
The bell does not go to mass, and yet calls every one to it.
A word written stays forever than hundred spoken work.
It is little of God's might, to make a poor man a Knight.
The goat says: "what will come has already come.”.
Don't try to fly before you have wings.
Who busies himself where no profit is found remains a fool the whole year round.
Eat leeks in march, garlic in may, all the rest of the year the doctors may play.
When the webs of the spider join, they can trap a lion.
Eat in poland, drink in hungary, sleep in germany, and make love in italy.
On your own donkey it is quicker than on someone else's racehorse.
Storing milk in a sieve, you complain of bad luck?
Who wears trousers will get a woman for sure.
The world is story.
Courage mounteth with occasion.
Water does not trickle out of his hand.
Who hath little shame the world is all his own.
Beads about the neck and the devil in the heart.
If you would shoot a general, shoot his horse first.
When I lent I had a friend; when I asked he was unkind.
Men may buy Gold over dear.
Malice drinketh its own poison.
An overturned cart ahead warns the one behind.
A bad penny always turns up.
The larger the ship, the larger the storm.
To whom God gives an office, adds also senses to it.
One good turn deserves another.
He who rides a tiger is afraid to dismount.
The frog knows more about the rain than the calendar.
Who doesn't approach with disbelief, won't see the face of paradise.
Always count the cost.
To eat and drink, and sleep together, is marriage, methinks.
A single hair hides the mountain in the distance.
If you have a roving eye, it's no use having the other one fixed on Heaven.
It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead the rest of your life.
Look on the bright side.
Too much sugar is bitter.
He that is worst may still hold the candle.
Gypsy gold does not chink and glitter.
Who dies threatening will be buried with farting.
A man and a sheaf of straw make two.
Aim high in your career but stay humble in your heart.
Long fingers count out money.
Who speaks ill of others to you will speak ill of you to others.
Sudden trust brings sudden repentance.
Put another way, satan is a person's wish to do evil.
Better sit beside him than in his place.
Early rising is most conducive to health.
There's no handsome woman on the wedding day, except the bride.
Do what the friar says, and not what he does.
He sticks his nose in everything.
The cat loves fish, but is loth to wet her feet.
When everybody's house is on fire go home and look at your own chimney.
Candour will lose you some friends, but not as many as deceit.
Rage is without reason.
An ignorant person is simply an enemy to himself.
A trick is not an arrow.
There's a risk in every jump.
A tailless dog cannot express his joy.
Who falls into the sea will take hold even of a snake.
One barber shears another.
You cannot hang a man twice.
If you carry treasure, don't travel at night.
A fire is nourished by its own ashes.
A trifling pledge of no small friendship.
Every case begins from the stomach.
A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks.
Time wounds all heels.
Respect flies away for the one who pursues it and hunts the person who is fleeing from it.
Never advise anyone to go to war or to get married. Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present. He that has no children brings them up well.
Play wid puppy, puppy lick yu mouth.
A thin cat and a fat woman are the shame of a household.
He who listens at doors hears more than he desires.
It is a sin to lye on the Devil.
You don't know how to suffer from the future's disease.
He is a fool who does not know from what quarter the wind blows.
A beard well lathered is half shaved.
If there are too many teachers or leaders with different ideas, the follower will not do nothing and learn nothing.
You must not enthrone ignorance just because there is much of it.
One piece of wood will not make a fire.
He is turning his coat according to the wind.
Never mention rope in the house of a man who has been hanged.
A bad son gives his mother a bad name.
One minute of patience can result in ten years of peace.
If you give evil, you will receive evil. What negativity you send out will return to you.
Other people's burdens killed the ass.
If the wine comes in, good sense goes out.
Riches have disclosed in thy character the bad qualities formerly hhidden by thy poverty.
The elders of the council do not jump over a brook.
He that lies upon the ground can fall no lower.
In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter.
The mirror will show you whatever you show it.
Listen to the voice of nature, For it holds treasures for you.
You can sell the devil if he is well cooked.
Don't kiss blacksmith's daughter.
If your neighbour visits mecca once, watch out for him.
For one pleasure a thousand pains.
Give an ass oats and he runs after thistles.
It is a bad sheep that is too lazy to carry its own fleece.
A huckster who cannot pass off mouse-turd for pepper, has not learned his trade.
There's no turning a windmill with a pair of bellows.
If all cords break.
He who waits for a dead man's shoes is in danger of going barefoot.
Flies and priests can enter any house.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
If your neighbor's house is afire, fetch water to save your own.
Falling teaches us to walk safely.
Marry in lent, and you'll learn to repent.
You cannot ride two horses with one ass.
Teaching a jew to deal in the market is like teaching grandmother to eat her eggs.
Without impalas and hyenas, the lion cannot be the king of the jungle.
Proffered service stinks.
May you have warmth in your igloo, oil in your lamp, and peace in your heart.
The best thing about a man is his dog.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is a king.
Bannaks is better nor na kind of bread.
If one calls in the forest will one get a response.
When in doubt, surprise them.
Who can't help, listens in vain.
Accidents will happen in the best families. (19th century)
Let every vat stand upon its own bottom. (William Bullein)
Some sow, others read.
Where there is no fear, there is no pity.
The grindstones can neither be used as a stool nor a headrest.
Home affairs must not go into the open.
Ambition makes people scorn rustic living.
If you walk with your feet your shoe will get worn, if you walk with your head, your hat.
"Du gamla, du fria” (Thou ancient, Thou free) is the title of the de facto national anthem of Sweden.
Alms given openly will be rewarded in secret.
A husband must be respected, even if he's very short.
A silver hammer breaks an iron door.
The cock often crows without a victory.
Before thirty, men seek disease after thirty, disease seeks men.
Salt is the honour of food.
Who takes a hut, also takes the rats and cockroaches.
Crotch seam rivet in original Levi's dropped due to pain from standing near fires.
No matter how beautiful and well crafted a coffin might look, it will not make anyone wish for death.
More festive than the feast itself is the day before.
Keep good men company, and you shall be of the number.
Life is the name of liveliness.
The future emerges from the past.
A close mouth catches no flies.
Voluntary is better than force.
The grill said to the frying pan: I want big fishes not minnows.
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.
Adhere to virtue honorably.
Every little frog is great in his own bog.
Better a slap from a wise man than a kiss from a fool.
Why to live, when Lämsä buries cheap?
An unch is a feast.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
However full the house, the hen finds a corner to lay in.
Were a woman rules the house, the devil is serving-man.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
When the child is weened, the nurse is fired.
Pardon is the choicest flower of victory.
After Falling, The ladder falls on you.
He devil is not so ugly as he is painted.
When you mention a snake, have a stick ready in your hand.
People live in each other's shelter.
Speech and action make the perfect conduct.
Whoever goes to Palermo and doesn't see Monreale, goes there a jackass and returns a fool.
He who likes drinking is always talking of wine.
The rabbit that dances on the broken branch of a high tree must look down to see how many mouths are opened wide beneath.
When the road is long, even slippers feel tight.
The wolf and the dog do not play together.
While the doctors consult, the patient dies.
Haste has no blessing.
Mad love, I for you and you for another.
A little, contemptible path is sometimes the one that leads you to the highway.
One moment of intense happiness prolongs life by a thousand years.
He who flatters me is my enemy, who blames me is my teacher.
If God sends you down a stony path, may he give you strong shoes.
God gives birds their food, but they must fly for it.
Consider the facts seven times before you suspect someone.
From smooth water God preserve me, from rough I will preserve myself.
A black shoe makes a blythe heart.
No one in a shabby coat is treated with respect.
Slander makes friends part.
Better a night full of anger than a night full of repentance.
A big chair does not make a king.
Who is everywhere is nowhere.
It's pointless to fish if there's no bait on the hook.
Ears that do not listen to advice, accompany the head when it is chopped off.
Wear the old coat and buy a new book.
What good is honor when you're starving?
Sharing the figs can leave you with none at all.
No cross, no crown.
It is impossible to go and look into the stomach of another.
An empty purse, and a finished house, make a man wise, but too late.
The barrel can only yield the wine that's in it.
Let the dogs bark; it's a sign that we are galloping ahead.
A centipede will not stop for a cripple.
No worst pestilence than a familiar enemy.
The owner's eye fattens the horse.
Beware of the door with too many keys.
Debt is the worst kind of poverty.
Sleeping shrimp gets taken by the current.
Who has not, cannot.
A small hatchet fells a great oak.
A house full of people is a house full of different points of view.
It never rains on your neighbors without you getting your feet wet.
In the boy see the man.
He who does not know to look where he came from will never get to his destination.
You cannot build a wall with one stone.
When a man is wealthy he may wear an old cloth.
A friend is known when needed.
In a rickety stable the cow produces no milk.
A bird that flies from the ground onto an anthill, does not know that it is still on the ground.
The danger past, and God forgotten.
The devil places a pillow for a drunken man to fall upon.
You drink out of the old cup.
The people's voice is God's voice.
Put your hand into the creel, and take your choice of flounders.
You get more from a few good animals than from the many that are poorly grazed.
As the old birds sings, the young ones twitter.
Every man has a price.
April is the cruellest month.
He does not hide his opinion under a bushel.
For a paltry gift, little thanks.
The fed baby plays on its mother's bed.
Faith is salvation, not the wood of a ship.
A poor man has no contempt.
Hatred stirreth up strife.
Second thoughts are best.
Alms never make poor.
Eat not cherries with the great.
Religion must be taught, not forced.
It's better to return from the centre of the ford than drown in the flood.
One catches more flies with a spoonful of honey than with twenty casks of vinegar.
Don't set sail on someone else's star.
You may keep yourself safe from fire, but not from a bad man.
Love is like dew that falls on both nettles and lilies.
The hasty man was never a traitor.
Not all that shines is gold, nor all that glows is silver.
Take a second look. It costs you nothing.
The sun does not shine on both sides of the hedge at once.
After black clouds, clear weather.
Your son is your son until he marries, but your daughter is your daughter until you die.
All mankind is divided into three classes: those that are immovable, those that are moveable, and those that move.
As the king lives, so live his vassals.
A grasshopper that sleeps about will be soon awake in a lizard's mouth.
Better have one bee than a host of flies.
See a pin and let it lie, you'll want a pin before you die.
Two cats can never be equal; one will always be bigger than the other.
No is a good answer when given in time.
He who recovers but the tail of his cow does not lose all.
No news is good news.
The dead to his burial ground, and the living to his fooling around.
Danger can only be overcome by more danger.
A full sack pricks up its ear.
Before God and the bus driver we are all equal.
A bush that doesn't rotate baskets must not grow mushrooms.
Serve a lord, and you will know what it is to be vexed.
Call me not fortunate till you see me buried.
During April rainfalls the pig gets butchered, the oxen gets fattened and the sheep laughs.
A letter from the heart can be read on the face.
Work is unlike wolf; it won't run to the woods.
The nose didn't smell the rotting head.
If your sword is short, add one step to it.
Even a stopped clock is right twice a day.
Who is great in faith won't be small in failure.
Youth will be served.
Might is right. (14th century)
A curse turns around and strikes the one who uttered it in the face.
You can live with tea and cold rice but not with cold words.
Men in glass houses should not throw stones.
Lucky men need no counsel.
Hope often deludes the foolish man.
There are four things in this life of which we have more than we think: faults, debts, years and enemies.
Blind hen also finds grains.
Water flows, rocks remain.
Providence is always on the side of the big battalions.
If you go to bed hungry, you'll wake up without having slept.
Light a candle for God and another for the devil.
Blow your horn in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cockerels; bleat in a flock of goats.
The wheel turns round.
A dog does not enter a home where they suffer from hunger.
If you're ridin' ahead of the herd, take a look back every now and then to make sure it's still there.
He who hath an ill name is half hanged.
A friendly person is never a good-for-nothing.
The teeth of the puppy are growing, while the old dog is gnawing bones.
Ask my companion if I be a thief.
A well mannered man does not step on the shadow of his fellow man.
Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire.
Where there are no sheep, they call the goat princess.
To have a clear tongue is better than having goods which you can't manage well.
It is better to be a master in a cottage than servant in a castle.
It's insane to oppose when you can neither win nor compromise.
Seek counsel of him who makes you weep, and not of him who makes you laugh.
Knowledge that is not used is abused.
When the wine is free even the judge drinks it.
The eye of a master does more work than both his hands.
A little leak will sink a great ship.
The good won't be spoiled in an inn, so the bad won't be mended in a church.
With the three means of punishment, words, thoughts and acts, ye shall not injure living things.
If eating poison finish up the plate.
Nobody knows where he goes, but only whence he comes.
Saying and doing are two things.
At a little fountain one drinks at one's ease.
Business goes where it is invited and stays where it is well treated.
A good wife makes a good husband.
If a father does not cultivate, the son does not inherit land.
When you go to a strange house knock at the door.
All waiting is long.
While father alive to get to know people.
The advice of a clever woman can ruin a strong town.
The needle makes clothes but stays naked.
Do what you have to do and don't watch what others do.
He who is everywhere, is nowhere.
Blessings are better than wealth.
People are slaves to charity/ good deeds.
If God gives you leprosy, look to your own past misdeeds.
Better the coldness of a friend than the sweetness of an enemy.
An eel escapes from a good fisherman.
On every small pretext the wolf seizes the sheep.
It's not the monkey on top that make a tree fall but it's the work and effort of numerous small insects and ants.
Deal with your friends as if they will become your enemies tomorrow.
Seven sons of one mother, and each one of a different mind.
Don't judge your life before it has ended.
Seek education from the cradle to the grave.
If you ignore your own relatives you will serve the outsiders.
Wine is given to bring mirth not drunkenness.
Attack is the best form of defense.
The boss said to the servant, when there isn't what you want, eat what there is.
Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
Never spur a willing horse.
Do not tell a friend anything you would conceal from an enemy.
Change yourself, and fortune will change with you.
One dirty pig pollutes others.
At table bashfulness is out of place.
Tis good feasting in other men's houses.
The mouse has but one hole is soon caught.
The favor of a man in power is like a summer shower.
The most beautiful things in the universe are the starry heavens above us and the feeling of duty within us.
That country will I call mine which supports me, not that which gave me birth.
Treat the earth well. It was not given to you by your parents. It is loaned to you by your children.
Count not what is lost but what is left.
For a rash to heal, you must stop scratching it.
You should forge while the iron is hot.
It is the human tongue which makes tremble both man and beast.
He that waits for dead men's shoes may go long enough barefoot.
Beauty and folly are constant companions.
Work like a slave and eat like a gentleman.
If the teacher be corrupt, the world will be corrupt.
He who would cheat the fox must rise early.
Who owns the bank owns the fish.
Let not turn fun to mischief.
It is ill takin' the breeks off a highlandman.
Time is a river of passing events - a rushing torrent.
People with the same disease share sympathy.
Long live the headdress, because hats come and go.
It is bad marketing with empty pockets.
To offer friendship to one who is looking for love, is like giving bread to someone dying of thirst.
‘almost' does not push a man off his horse.
There is not a single season without fruit.
Strauss, Emanuel (1998). Concise Dictionary of European Proverbs (Abbreviated ed.). Routledge. p. 92. ISBN 0415160502.
Where there is a glut of words, there is a dearth of intelligence.
He gets green way.
Whatever befalls the priest let it befall the priest's wife.
The dogs bite the last.
Hit the nail on the head.
Many dogs, rabbit's death.
Wisdom comes only when you stop looking for it and start living the life the Creator intended for you.
Hell is full of good intentions.
Wipe your eye with your elbow.
He knows the price of everything and the value of nothing.
The morning hour has gold in its mouth.
Custom surpasses nature.
The broad-minded see the truth in different religions; the narrow-minded see only the differences.
Write injuries in the sand, kindnesses in marble.
The cheese vessel will not sail merely by words.
Those who take the profits should also bear the expense.
Experience is the mistress of fools.
Be generous to a generous person and you'd win him, be generous to a mean person and he'd rebel on you.
A fair exchange brings no quarrel.
A woman who has not been twice married cannot know what a perfect marriage is.
For every head a hat.
Live in my heart and pay no rent.
Your companion's burden is a load of kapok.
There is no need to bind up one's head before it is broken.
The eye that is still says more than a chattering mouth.
No tattoo is made without blood.
We must eat a peck of dirt before we die.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
He burned his own blister; now let him sit on it.
Good eating deserves good drinking.
Pity him who would burn his thiompán for you.'
Six of one and half a dozen of the other.
The weeping bride makes a laughing wife.
A woman's clothes are the price her husband pays for peace.
A dead man pays no debts.
A man with a skinny wife is a deceitful man.
The fed hound never hunts.
The mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small.
One decade is long enough to change the looks of mountains and rivers.
The longer we live, the more wonders we see.
You cannot touch pitch and not be defiled.
A very jealous person is glad when somebody else cries.
Wolf doesn't eat wolf.
Don't stop sowing just because the birds ate a few seeds.
Ask for your wife's advice and then do the opposite.
Every fox likes a henroost.
Who has gone out to the world will stay there.
If you want peace, prepare for war.
When the fish gets rotten, it all starts from the head.
Break the soil when it's moist, plow with the warm weather, and do the seeding on time.
Home saints don't make miracles.
When the devil grows poor he becomes a tax collector.
Many an Irish property was increased by the lace of a daughter's petticoat.
A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture.
The one who loves an unsightly person is the one who makes him beautiful.
Speak well of your friend; of your enemy neither well nor ill.
Trouble nebber blow shell"
A woman is at her strongest when she faints.
Talking to one another is loving one another.
Do well the little things now; so shall great things come to thee by and by asking to be done.
Vision quest should be continuous.
When your neighbor's wall breaks, your own is in danger.
Not having all of them in a row.
T'ief no love fi si t'ief carry long bag.
One bird in your hand is better than ten on the roof.
It is easy to pull a thorn out of someone else's skin.
Having drunk the country's water, one should obey the country's laws.
Good wine needs no sign.
Any fool can say "Ah" -- you need intelligence to say "Yes."
Feed the cow, feed yourself!
If the eye do not admire, the heart will not desire.
Don't give your son's wife fall-harvest eggplant to eat.
The whole hog or none.
If the kernels are not finished, the jaw will not rest.
The innkeeper loves a drunkard, but not for a son-in-law.
Only one can be emperor.
Once you have found your first diamond, you will never give up looking.
Deeds are love, and not fine phrases.
Man punishes the action, but God the intention.
There is no need to point out the obvious.
If thou hast not a capon, feed on an onion.
The cripple is always the one to open the dancing.
You've got to do your own growing, no matter how tall your grandfather was.
A bitter centipede if eaten in a pleasing berry pie will taste sweet.
He buys well who is not called a donkey.
When wine enters modesty departs.
What is useful cannot be base.
What makes a fool excited now a wise person had heard before and isn't excited.
The eyes are like stars of the sky, not so bright, but as far away from each other.
You are beautiful because of your possessions.
You may go where you want, but you cannot escape yourself.
Who honours not age, is unworthy of it.
Old proverbs are the children of truth.
When we least expect it, the hare darts out of the ditch.
Necessity is the greatest teacher... A szükség a legnagyobb tanítómester.
That land fares ill where the king's but a babe.
Alas! how much smaller a thing it is to be with others, than to remember thee!
It is a fine thing to command, though it be only a herd of cattle.
Damage suffered makes you knowing, but seldom rich.
If it rained macaroni, what a fine time for gluttons.
Truth cannot be hidden forever beneath evil.
He who walks the path of evil comes upon an evil end.
Condition is 90 percent of the game.
No mek one donkey choke you.
The thief can lie, those he has stolen from cannot.
Keep something for a sair foot.
Nothing is more easily blotted out than a good turn.
He who waits for another's platter has a cold meal.
A man's servant can live for a hundred years.
An ass does not stumble twice over the same stone.
A lame of heart is not a lame of leg; he cannot be recognized.
It is the trapped animal that makes the most noise.
Five fingers are brothers, not equals.
A great river does not refuse any small streams.
Who kills has to bury.
Life is like a wheel, sometimes at the top, sometimes at the bottom.
Conscience is the chamber of justice.
If the owner of two adjacent farms cannot be friends, then they must wait till their next reincarnation to be able to make friends.
A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot; a dog travelling with good men becomes a rational being.
It's all fate and chance.
A whistling girl and a crowing hen never came to a good end.
A doctor and a boor know more than a doctor alone.
A clear conscience makes a soft pillow.
A splinter doesn't land far from the trunk.
A good beginning is half the battle.
You can't make a rattle with a single walnut in a sack.
Envy is destroyed by true friendship.
A rat with many offspring always sleeps with his door open.
"with great pleasure,” says the boor, when he must.
Burn one day's gathering of firewood on the same day.
Go often to the house of thy friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path.
A book is a friend.
Old fishermen never die, they just smell that way.
Habits are cobwebs at first, cables at last.
Don't squat with your spurs on.
Poets know all about famous places without having been there.
If you point one accusing finger at others, three fingers will point at you.
Beautiful discourse is rarer than emerald, yet it can be found among the servant girls at the grindstones.
If a sauna, whiskey and tar do not help, the disease is fatal.
Men apt to promise are apt to forget.
Many become brave when the fiend flees.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
The only truly dead are those who have been forgotten.
There is no wormwood that comes into flower and does not wither.
The nimblest footman is a false tale.
You don't miss the cow until the stall is empty.
A small house will hold a hundred friends.
A rich mouthful, a heavy groan.
They are the gods themselves that white-wash the fruits of the pumpkins.
If you beat even new floor mats, dirt will come out.
He'd skin a louse, and send the hide and fat to market.
Two things rule the world -- reward and punishment.
Joy and sorrow are to-day and to-morrow.
If a scribe knows only a single line but his handwriting is good, he is indeed a scribe!
Show me a poor man, I will show you a flatterer.
When the olive tree blooms during April, olives are harvested with barrels, when it blossoms in June, they are harvested in handfuls.
Fear may force a man to cast beyond the moon.
He who has butter on his head, should not go to the sun.
The fox falls into the trap only once.
Near is my doublet, but nearer is my smock.
One sturdy house is worth a hundred in ruins.
The sound of the bell does not drive away rooks.
The greatest death is laughter.
Who writes love letters grows thin; who carries them, fat.
A single tree cannot make a forest.
Asses sing badly, because they pitch their voices too high.
Daughters are no better than crows.
It is better to be condemned by many doctors than by one judge.
Take care of the dimes and the dollars will take care of themselves.
Not even an angel can fulfill two missions at once.
When a man is not used to breeches the seams gall him.
Better one timely squawk than constant talk.
He that finds fault wants to buy.
Forget brotherhood, each goat will cost your seven dinars.
A bad wife is a poor harvest for sixty years.
All things come to those who wait.
Water and sun make work, water and wind make grain.
A good citizen owes his life to his country.
A titmouse in the hand is better than a crane in the sky.
Every one counts for as much as he has.
That's quickly done which is long repented.
Speak fair, think what you will.
It is harder to be poor without complaining than to be rich without boasting.
Be not led by flattery.
It is in vain to lay a net in sight of the birds.
Don't wake the bear that sleeps.
God lives in an honest heart.
The more sorrow one encounters, the more joy one can contain.
Night is followed by day, famine by abundance.
The best kind of closed door is the one you can leave unlocked.
Eat according to the limits of your provisions; walk according to the length of your step.
Respect is greater from a distance.
To get eggs there must be some cackling.
If life is fulfilled we go away with empty hands.
It takes three years to learn to be a man of integrity; it only takes three days to degrade.
Thaw reveals what has been hidden by snow.
Even the ant hath its anger.
For a lucky man the pot boils without fire.
The pitcher that goes too often to the well is broken at last.
That is pleasant to remember which was hard to endure.
He who has long fingers should also have long legs.
When a woman knows no more how to answer, she must be dried up.
The patient who names a doctor his heir makes a big mistake.
Evildoers always think the worst of others.
ask, and it shall be given you.
A chameleon can only change its colour but never change its skin.
He that dwells next door to a cripple will learn to halt.
Talk of the devil and you hear his bones rattle.
Exception strenghtens the rule...Kivétel erősíti a szabályt.
Words, cast them to the wind.
Better once than never.
Better to be guilty in the eyes of men than in the eyes of God.
Shared grief is half grief.
It is useful to first see the spark before the fire.
Every community has its own customs and traditions.
He is unworthy of life that causes not life in another.
When a slave mounts a camel he wants to ride on both humps.
When one blind man leads several blind men, before long all will fall into a fire pit.
Little wood, much fruit.
For every fog in march there's a frost in may.
Marrying is human. Having children is divine.
You find everything when you are spring cleaning.
Absence and a friendly neighbor washes away love.
The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood.
He that reckons without his host must reckon again.
Reality is not only stranger than we imagine, it is stranger than we can imagine.
The cat always leaves her mark upon her friend.
No one can climb a tree with no branches.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
One can speak and seven can sing.
The mair mischief the better sport.
Those at piece, work for it.
He who asks more of a friend than he can bestow deserves to be refused.
Before firing, you must take aim.
A husband of a mother is a father.
he has lost the horse, but is looking for the horseshoe.
You can't make pancakes without breaking eggs.
Fruit of a tree falls near its roots.
Cheerful company shortens the journey.
Even the blind chicken finds grains.
Love did not grow any garlic.
Preists and Doves, make foul houses.
When a stone is identified it cannot destroy a hoe.
Black will be no other Hue.
There is more friendship in a half pint of whiskey than in a churn of buttermilk.
A spear is only against a pig; against a human being it is painful.
The hump of the ox that has grown old must be eaten by women.
Have the courage not to adopt another's courage.
It's a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock.
The earthen pan gains nothing by contact with the copper pot.
Serve your neighbors as you would be served yourself.
When the head is stupid suffers the whole body.
Crimes may be secret, yet not secure.
He whose house is tiled with glass should not throw stones at his neighbour's.
Where there's gossiping, there's lying.
The more cooks the worse soup.
A man cannot be a good physician if he has never been sick himself.
Idleness is a fool's desire.
The tongue wounds more than a lance.
Judge of the daughter by the mother.
Only the spoon knows the pot's sorrows.
He that hes gold may buy land.
Glory lies still; abuse is running.
A diamond daughter turns to glass as a wife.
February may be short but it's the worst month.
Money has wings.
If the left hand battles the right, who wins?
You think you are strong like the corn plant, yet the bean vine is already choking you.
Every vegetable has its time.
Conqueror the self and you will conquer the opponent.
A woman will be twice bound when her chains feel comfortable.
Credit is better than wealth.
The wife of a careless man is almost a widow.
The fangs of the green snake and the sting of a wasp don't really make poison -- that is only to be found in a woman's heart.
Nature decays, but latinum lasts forever.
Come fish, come frog, all goes into the basket.
Let them talk of men, and beg of me.
One doesn't tell a man ‘go away' but one shows him something so he will go.
The dog that licks ashes is not to be trusted with flour.
Don't promise something when you are full of joy; don't answer letters when you are full of anger.
The bigger they are, the harder they fall.
A woman's tongue is sharp enough to pierce the toughest flesh.
The stone will not move from its place unless head is put to head.
Once a handmaid never a lady.
However would the string wind, the end will be reached.
A cloth is not woven from a single thread.
The worst pig eats the best acorn.
Evil penetrates like a needle and then becomes like an oak tree.
One beats the bush, another catches the bird?
He that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
You cannot milk a bull.
You are his father by nature, I by counsel.
Patience is bitter, but it has a sweet fruit.
A woman is like a cat: the more you pet her the better she feels.
Rich is he who has no debts, fortunate he who lives without handicap.
For the flying enemy a golden bridge.
A storm in a glass of water.
Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at the present.
By dint of going wrong all will come right.
A good guitarist will play on one string.
No one can complain of the sea who twice suffers shipwreck.
Grief for a husband is like a pain in the elbow, sharp and short.
The weakest go to the wall.
Cunning is superior to strength.
Desire of God and desire of man are two different things.
Ask the truth from a child.
The truth passes through fire and does not burn.
A timely "no" beats a hasty "yes."
There is no making pancakes without breaking the eggs.
Stop up the hole until it's small.
One should act as he may, not as he would like to.
The world's Great Journeys begin with the first step.
The poor are the needy.
A good friend is a treasure.
The better the fruit, the more wasps to eat it.
He who is a parrot is green wherever he is.
Don't go to law with the devil in the court of hell.
You can burn down a house, but can you hide the smoke?
Things which restrict the common are to be interpreted rigidly.
The bowels support the heart, and not the heart the bowels.
Fact can be stranger than fiction.
Time flies when you are among friends.
Don't worry if people call you ordinary - only if you are ordinary.
A fool sometimes gives good counsel.
On a fool's beard all learn to shave.
Those who know how to praise also know how to lie.
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance.
God provides for the blind vulture.
Here today and gone tomorrow.
Paczolay, Gyula (1997). European Proverbs in 55 languages. DeProverbio.com. p. 272. ISBN 1-875943-44-7.
We disregard what we've got, always chasing what we've not.
The gallows was made for the unlucky.
Cover your candle, it will light more.
For tender almonds go to Aragona, to see beautiful young girls go to Favara.
Rice tastes good when properly cooked, and talking is good when the opportunity is ripe.
God swats flies for an animal that has no tail.
If youhave the moon, ignore the stars.
Remorse is worse than a beating.
Neither shall the wave, which has passed on, ever be recalled; nor can the hour, which has once fled by, return again.
Wherever you go, an okka is four hundred dirhem.
An unlucky girl may make a good woman.
Prices are forgotten, quality remains.
Never throw the cat at the dog.
The head only knows what lies nearest the heart.
A man who touches the bottom of a soup plate with a ball of foofoo is no longer searching for soup.
Eagles do not breed doves.
Long is not forever.
Epicures dig their graves with their teeth.
Three women will make as much noise as a market.
Better the cottage where one is merry than the palace where one weeps.
No sooner said than done.
Sinews and big muscles do not make a farmer.
The white ant is small but it creates the great anthill.
Promise little but with respect.
You can close the city gates, but you can't close the people's mouths.
A thief's end is hanging.
A jack of both sides, is before long, trusted by nobody, and abused by both parties.
Better give nothing than stolen alms.
Leave a great talker in the middle of the street.
The law helps those who watch, not those who sleep.
The bucket goes down the well every day - some day it won't come up again.
Cautious, careful people, always casting about to preserve their reputations, can never effect a reform.
One who knows the limit knows true happiness.
One lie makes many.
Go and wake up your luck.
When the heart is at ease, the body is healthy.
One basket of grapes does not make a vintage.
Let the other party be heard too.
Sorrows are valuable treasures that you only show to your friends.
A half loaf is better than no bread.
A dog never forgets his master.
The rich man carries God in his pocket, the poor man in his heart.
Marriage is a little bit like buying melons, you need a little luck.
Drive the nail that will go.
Ye strive against the stream.
In the kingdom of hope, there is no winter.
The tongue hurts more than the teeth.
If you don't lift the skirt of a bride you don't know what she wears under it.
All work and no play makes Jack filthy rich.
When a friend asks, tomorrow does not count.
If you have a friend who is a doctor, make your bow and send him to the house of your enemy.
It is easy to poke another man's fire.
When God wants to punish an idiot, He teaches them a few words of Hebrew.
Your aspirations are in heaven, but your brains are in your feet.
If the bitch were not in haste, she would not litter blind puppies.
A doctor and a clown know more than a doctor alone.
Chins without beards deserve no honor.
If you will not hear reason, she will surely rap your knuckles.
Of a given horse, one shouldn't check the teeth.
There is nothing new under the sun- and that's why there remains such a mess.
Some go to law, for the wagging of a straw.
Travel and you will see them, sit and they will come to you.
He that does not show himself is overlooked.
When our enemy flies, build him a golden bridge.
Morgenstund hat Gold im Mund.
Life is like perpetual drunkenness, the pleasure passes but the headache remains.
At the bottom of patience there is heaven.
Do not only point out the way, but lead the way.
There are many fair words in the marriage making, but few in the tochergood paying.
If the collective farm is wealthy, the farmer is happy.
While alive in rags; when dead in satin to cover the body.
After a foolish deed comes remorse.
A man's studies pass into his character.
A single stroke don't fell the oak.
Praise makes the good man better, blame makes the bad one worse.
Righteousness is half of religion.
In your neighbors' soup there is always one fatty morsel.
Deep swimmers and high climbers usually don't die in their beds.
The raven sees its chickens as falcons.
Don't reckon with your host.
Weave in faith and God will find the thread.
If the goat would not jump around, she wouldn't break her leg.
The net of heaven is large and wide, but it lets nothing through.
He who sows virtue reaps fame.
Take a man by his word, and a Cow by her horn.
Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny-worth of tar.
No.1 is the first house in the row.
Outside a sheep, inside a wolf.
Other times, other manners.
Home is not a structure, but something in your heart.
A fall into a ditch, a gain in your wit.
The person who deals in camels should make the doors high.
Love is like a rice plant; transplanted, it can grow elsewhere.
I saw and was silent, I saw and pondered, I listened to the speech of men.
The mature fruit is cooked in August and dished out in September.
[Only] He who is in the convent knows what goes on inside.
He lives in the land of promise.
When the teeth fall off, the nose is sure to collapse.
It's better to pick a fight with your in-laws than with your neighbors.
When the tree falls everyone runs to cut the branches.
A jade stone is useless before it is processed; a man is good-for-nothing until he is educated.
Blame not others for the faults that are in you.
Fouls invent fashions and wise men follow them.
Read critically, and you will find each word worth a thousand ounces of gold.
Who teaches me for a day is my father for a lifetime.
Spend Easter and Christmas with whomever you want, but celebrate Mardi Gras with your own.
It is hard to break a hog of an ill custom.
Hold him! Hold him! and you yourself after him.
The one chased away with a stick comes back and the one chassed away with reason doesn't come back.
A miser and his persimmon seeds.
The pitcher which goes too often to the well gets broken.
He acts wisely who says little.
God save us from evil neighbors and from the indignation of the upright.
One enemy is too much for a man, and a hundred friends too few.
The master's foot is manure for the estate.
He who forces love when none is found, remains a fool the whole year round.
You're just like a baby; one never knows what comes and when it comes.
Vetches seem bitter to the full-cropped pigeon.
With iron you hurt, with iron you'll get hurt.
He who sings drives away sorrow.
Great wit drives away wisdom.
He who lives by the sword dies by the sword.
Don't praise my good fortune before i'm dead and buried.
Bleed him, purge him, and if he dies, bury him.
Go with the flow.
A wise person must know the language, sayings, and tales of his society.
The flower has no front or back.
For lazy people it is always party time.
Where you father has been with ink, go not you with a bag (i.e. what your father has sold and assigned, think not to recover with a bag of papers. In other words, don't go to law for it.
Don't despise pepper because it is so small; eat, and see how pungent it is.
You never know how a cow catches a rabbit.
White wine strengthens the hip.
One cannot make soup out of beauty.
Go to bed supperless and you will wake without debt.
He who makes a mouse of himself will be eaten by the cats.
Grassy year, shitty year.
Collaboration, sharing of burden irrespective of the weight.
He who drinks on credit, gets drunk twice.
Even dust amassed will grow into a mountain.
He gives a party with bath-water.
Never sleep with a stranger or borrow from a neighbour.
Save something for the man that rides on the white horse.
What's in the marrow is hard to take out of the bone.
Thou too art mortal.
I have to learn how to walk on three legs says the hyena for when I am old.
There is no point in combing where there is no hair.
A little too late is much too late.
There is no feast till a roast and no torment till a marriage.
For lack of hens the fox catches crows.
Be peaceful yet vigilant - a sheep will bite someone without a stick.
Rust consumes iron and envy consumes itself.
When things go well it is easy to advise.
One pair of good soles is worth two pairs of upper leathers.
Those who wrestle weasels will be scratching for fleas.
Faith keeps the world going.
He who waits for the moon waits for darkness.
Distant water won't help to put out a fire close at hand.
A kick works as a treatment to a hunch backed person.
Everything has an end with the exception of God.
Faults are thick where love is thin. (1659)
Loaves put awry into the oven come out crooked.
There is danger in delay. (Strauss, 1998 p. 695)
The most important thing in life is to be buried well.
Without money you can neither hug nor kiss.
If you are ready to believe, you are easy to deceive.
It is easy to be generous out of another man's purse.
Everyone thinks his own thoughts are best.
A goose's child is a swimmer.
He who is used to strangle, cannot slaughter.
Many grains of sand will sink a ship.
Among walnuts only the empty one speaks.
In a village with too many roosters morning will come late.
In the very act of committing an offence.
Revolutions are not made with rose water.
The neighbour comes before the home.
Don't suspect your employee. If one is suspicious, don't employ him.
Appear always what you are and a little less.
There is no robber worse than a bad book.
If you stash, you have something to withdraw.
Possession and good right, with lance in hand.
If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement.
Alas for the son whose father went to heaven.
If the beard meant everything, the goat would preach.
Not everything that is good to eat is good to talk about.
Good fortune wears a pretty dress but its underclothes do not bear investigation.
If you love, love the moon; if you steal, steal a camel.
He who wants to be famous will have many a sleepless night.
He who is in a hurry always arrives late.
It is more difficult for beautiful women to stay chaste.
Happy he who can take warning from the mishaps of others.
A mother never thinks her baby is ugly.
The father a saint, the son a sinner.
The head grey, and no brains yet.
Rotten wood cannot be carved.
There's none so blind as those who will not see.
We let him in, and now he shows us the door.
Do not waste your time looking for soft ground to drive your spade in.
A cherry year, a merry year; a plum year, a dumb year.
It's better to have a thousand enemies outside of the tent than one inside the tent.
We do in haste what we repent at leisure.
Where poverty comes in at the door, loves flies out at the window.
Education doesn't come by bumping your head against the school house.
Add legs to the snake after you have finished drawing it.
A friend who visits you when you are suffering is your best friend.
God cures, and the doctor gets paid.
Honour once lost never returns.
The queen ant feeds on its own ants.
Negotiate with your enemy whilst you are a strong and formidable force, and he will always fear and respect you, but negotiate at the brink of defeat, and he will trample you down.
if no agreement, then separation.
Necessity and opportunity may make a coward valiant.
The fortunate need only touch earth, and it becomes gold.
A fool's money is not long in his pocket.
It is one word of advice that one needs to give to a wise man, and that word keeps multiplying in his mind.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
At an open chest the righteous sins.
Mention not a rope in the house of one whose father was hanged.
He that says A, must also say B.
The miser is his own mother-in-law.
Fowls will not spare a cockroach that falls in their midst.
The world's a stage; each plays his part, and takes his share.
Beard grows and the man is well.
Shear the sheep but don't flay them.
Charity is a virtue of the heart and not of the hand.
There is no shame in not knowing; the shame lies in not finding out.
The girl who can't dance says the band can't play.
An insolent lord is not a gentleman.
Bad habits are worse than rabies.
Be civil to every man; you know not who may prove to be your friend.
The higher up, the greater fall.
A sluggard takes an hundred steps because he would not take one in due time.
You cannot propel yourself forward by patting yourself on the back.
It's not worth crying over spilt milk.
Manure is the farmer's gold.
There is no hunting but with old hounds.
A pestilence follows a famine.
A little water is a sea to an ant.
The wonderful and the impossible have come into collision.
A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than that which is given by the sword.
His tongue's nae slander.
Of three things the devil makes a salad: advocate's tongues, notaries' fingers, and a third that shall be nameless.
No camel route is long with good company.
Three things it is best to avoid: a strange dog, a flood, and a man who thinks he is wise.
Where the devil cannot put his head he puts his tail.
Wisdom and virtue are like the two wheels of a cart.
Being in the right does not depend on having a loud voice.
Be patient, cossack, and you'll be a chieftain.
Perfect love casteth out fear.
A cup of coffee commits one to forty years of friendship.
His fault is besides him.
Wounds from the knife are healed, but not those from the tongue.
They throw stones at the walnut trees, but not at the maple.
God spends the day elsewhere, but he always spends the night in rwanda.
To a good cat a good rat.
A surgeon experiments on the heads of orphans.
A cursed horse has a shining coat.
Dying is as natural as living soundly.
Thieves never steal bells.
One must pass through the door or the window.
Much talk, little work.
He that lies on the floor doesn't fall down.
He that lives with cripples learns to limp.
There is no fire without smoke.
Caesar's wife must be above suspicion.
He who seeks his goat with the man who ate it, is certain not to find it.
Eyes that see do not grow old.
You can share the same bed but you can't share the same dream.
Give me a fish and I will eat today, teach me to fish and I will eat for a lifetime.
Between the anvil and the hammer.
Hypocrisy is a homage that vice pays to virtue.
A barley corn is better than a diamond to a cock.
The crow will find its mate.
A handful of dirt is pleasing if it's your own land.
A man at sixteen will prove a child at sixty.
Some have been thought brave because they didn't have the courage to run away.
Late repentance is rarely sincere.
When the wind blows the sea is moving.
Nothing should be done in a hurry except catching fleas.
Pears, fill the chest; prunes, eat one.
One man knocks in the nail, and another hangs his hat on it.
A woman who offers sex to everyone will get kicked by everyone.
It is the dog which is hit by the tossed stick, which yelps.
The skin of the leopard is beautiful, but not his heart.
He is a proud Tod that will not scrape his own Hole.
It is hard for an empty bag to stand upright.
"When in doubt, in favour of the accused". (Corpus Juris Civilis)
Every kind of animal can be tamed, but not the tongue of man.
The tallest blade of grass is the first to be cut by the scythe.
Running away is not glorious, but often very healthy.
It will happen when the Danube reverts its course or dries up.
Hold on tight to the words of your ancestors.
Few may play with the devil and win.
It is always the potato of another family's boy that extinguishes the fire.
The nile has no resting place it wanderes around carrying a log.
Nebber mek you sail too big fe you ship.
The axe forgets what the tree remembers.
Soon ripe, soon rotten.
The slow horse reaches the mill.
Many desire the tree who pretend to refuse the fruit.
What is sport to the boy is the death of the bird.
He that lies on the ground cannot fall.
He who serves two masters must lie to one of them.
If i had a dog as daft as you i would shoot him.
The higher you climb, the harder you may fall.
The Iabour of childbirth is known to the mother.
Call kinship with the hyena, and all hyenas are your friend.
It is easy to inflict a wound, but difficult to heal it.
He that leaves the highway to cut short, commonly goes about.
He who never moves about appreciates only one's mother's cookery skills.
Translation and If the mountain will not come to Mohammed, Mohammed must go to the mountain.
With his own weapon do I stab him.
One who eats a guinea fowl does not start to look like a guinea fowl.
There is no other happiness but peace.
Beat your own and others will fear you.
Guilt is like the footprint of a hippopotamus.
Instead of being near a pagan you rather be near an animal.
Better deserve honour and not have it, than have it and not deserve it.
To whom to much is given we require too much from him.
A lazy fly cannot have a taste of a fresh wound.
If you light one candle for God, then you must light two for the devil.
The threatener loses the opportunity of vengeance.
A broken leg is not healed by a silk stocking.
Ideas are worth a dime dozen, but people who put them into action are priceless.
When a man say him do not mind, then mind him .
Our time runs on like a stream; first fall the leaves and then the tree.
Whether it rains or stops raining, the lentils have two eyes.
To become a master or a deadman.
We'll never know the worth of water till the well go dry.
The gravity of the earth is so strong that the old grey man walks crooked.
Sing the song of the man whose cart you sit on.
Prudence and strength combined.
Misfotunes come on wings and depart on foot.
One boy is more trouble that a dozen girls.
People can be done without but a lot of us need a friend.
Give it to the Yangtze that rambles east to the sea.
Do not mistake a goats beard for a fine stallion's tail.
God and fairies can be wrong as well.
One tale is good till another is told.
Every man has a fool in his sleeve.
If your friend is like honey, don't lick all of it.
Three things must epigrams, like bees, have all, A sting, and honey, and a body small.
All skill is in vain when an angel pees in the touchhole of your musket.
The day is never so holy that the pot refuses to boil.
Literal meaning: The fisherman is the shark's friend.
A man who was always complaining was quite rightly sent to hell.
You cannot force water up a hill.
The highest branch is not the safest roost.
Crows are never the whiter for washing themselves.
Every dog hath its day.
It fares ill with the house where the spinning-wheel commands the sword.
Many hands make quick work.
The older the goat the tighter the rope.
Even when fire has done its very worst, one still has to resort to it.
Men dig their graves with their teeth.
If you are travelling towards the East, you will inevitably move away from the West.
A good deed is worth gold.
An old ape hath an old eye.
The more you stir dirt, the worse it stinks.
There's a fool born every minute.
It will be a forward cock that crows in the shell.
See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, you'll want a pin before you die.
Pilgrims seldom come home saints.
Every day hath its night, every weal its woe.
Who reckons without his host must reckon again.
If they are uttering insults and don't mean you, and yet you reply, you have condemned yourself.
A tree doesn't move unless there is wind.
Much knowledge creates headache.
If you've seeded before a heavy rain, one out of one hundred of your plants will be out of line.
If you don't collect the sheep early, you get neither the sheep nor the wool.
Children have a hair of their father.
He sleeps securely who has nothing to lose.
Better a mistake at the beginning than at the end.
A redeemer of people is a walker with people.
Eggs and metal should not be put in the same sack.
Two cats will not live together in one sack.
The little hemlock is sister to the great hemlock.
Politeness pleases even a cat.
One grain does not full the granary, but it helps its companion.
Different flowers look good to different people.
Drink wine upon figs.
To beg of the miser is to dig a trench in the sea.
Hog say, di fus water im cetch, i'm walla.
Coming back with arms longer than legs.
A lawsuit is a fruit-tree planted in a lawyer's garden.
The secret of success is constancy of purpose.
The liar is not believed when he speaks the truth.
Kings love the treason, but not the traitor.
Trot mother, trot father, how should the foal amble?
"Give me a push from my back" does not mean give me a hunchback.
Hide the mouthfuls of food.
Waves will rise on silent water.
He who hath lost his good name how shall he in future gain his living.
Cunning has little honour.
If a young woman says no to marriage just wait until her breasts sag.
The second thought is always the best.
A hunter who has only one arrow does not shoot with careless aim.
The pot always reveals its contents.
The heaviest ear of corn bends its head lowest.
Can you paint the outer wall neglecting the inner wall?
As many heads, as many wits.
To squeeze an eel too hard is the way to lose it.
Nature is our mother.
What the thief stole has always been called expensive.
A wise man cannot save a decaying country as manure cannot save an eroding land.
He whom a serpent has bitten dreads a slow-worm.
It is not easy to bear prosperity unruffled.
Where they eat your meat let them pick the bones.
He that is angry without a cause shall be pleased without amends.
Science makes men arrogant; wealth makes them fools.
Watch the faces of those who bow low.
Ye drive a Snail to Rome.
If you live in the river you should make friends with the crocodile.
The pebble comes from the mountain.
Chickens can't go back into eggs.
Wealth gets in the way of wisdom.
Night brings the cows home.
If you marry you'll suffer in your youth, if you don't marry you'll suffer in your old age.
Take heed is a fair thing.
The frog does not jump in the daytime without reason.
Constant dropping wears away the stone.
Time is a good story teller.
Everything is pardoned the brave..
A bad rumour flies on wings.
A horse grown fat kicks.
Cry to the valley.
He who asks for the meaning of a proverb has called her/his mother's dowry a waste.
A mule laden with gold is welcome at every castle.
A woman like a lamb, a quiet friendly woman.
All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.
Give nine, save ten.
If wishes were true, shepherds would be kings.
Women are supernumerary when present, and missed when absent.
Beauty is but skin deep.
Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house.
Even the judge was drunk when the wine was free.
Even when a sharp sword rests on your neck, don't give up on mercy.
Don't throw away dirty water before you have more clean water.
End well, all well.
The wood pigeon's voice is the glory of the garden.
Wind makes more noise among the trees.
The worst person doesn't lack some good deeds.
Eating while seated makes one of large size; eating while standing makes one strong.
It's a big wind that blows on small doors.
Children should be seen and not heard.
What you go looking for, you will find.
It is the tone that makes the music.
Casting the iron whilst it is hot.
Don't kill the man at the count's desire.
There is no joy without alloy.
Believe him who speaks from experience.
Go out from your village: don't let your village go out form you.
An empty barrel rattles louder.
Hot water is not a playground for frogs.
He is no friend that eats his own by himself and mine with me.
Beautiful may mornings and beautiful january evenings.
Dead man can' run from ‘e coffin.
It is the habit that a child forms at home, that follows them to their marriage.
It is like using a spoon to get water from the nile.
I'll put a spoke among your wheels.
Never marry for money, you'll borrow it cheaper.
A real friend takes the hand of his friend in overwhelming worry and fire.
I wish to see him when I see the middle of my back.
He must have much meal who would stop all mouths.
Vixen resolved not to steal chicken.
Trust no one till you have eaten a bushel of salt with him.
To live is well, but to live well is better.
Other days, other ways.
Worrying never did anyone any good.
All sails do not suit every ship.
All your geese are swans.
Your relations are more deserving of your generosity.
The caribou feeds the wolf, but it is the wolf who keeps the caribou strong.
Patience can cook a stone.
To take counsel of one's pillow.
Ill win, ill warit.
The darkness of night cannot stop the light of morning.
You cannot make an ass drink if he is not thirsty.
One look ahead is better than two looks behind.
A sure sign of age is loneliness.
The wise are as rare as eagles that fly high in the sky.
Blind men should judge no colors.
You get a lot of these blows, said the busy bee when he flew against a brick wall.
All bread is not baked in one oven.
Sister Nicola said: Don't put the pasta basket in the water until it's boiling.
A good laugh and a long sleep are the two best cures in the doctor's book.
What good is horse when the grass is already dead?
A king's castle is his home.
Avoid the bad, love the good, because things change in a moment.
Women and glass are always in danger.
Forbidden fruit tastes best.
Public money is like holy water, every one helps himself to it.
Life is a ladder -- some will climb up it, others down.
More fair than scales.
A drunkard at prayer is regarded as an idol worshipper.
You can see the source of a river, but not that of a clan.
Fools enter where brave men fear to tread.
Wit is folly unless a wise man hath the keeping of it.
Survive the Jaw of a Tiger.
Zigliara, fire and flame.
Though separation be hard, two never met but had to part.
Show me your wife and I will tell you what kind of a husband she has.
There is no better mirror than the face of an old friend.
The rattan basket criticizes the palm-leafed bag, yet both are full of holes.
The branch must be bent early that is to make a good crook.
Own mouth is closer than the mouth of your backpack.
It takes a breast for a child to know it's mother and it takes a mother for a child to know its father.
To know where the shoe pinches. (14th century)
An elephant's tasks are never too heavy for it.
The sweetness of food doesn't last long, but the sweetness of good words do.
The dog that barks much is never good for hunting.
Better a blush in the face than a spot in the heart.
He has his own brain - he can solve his own problems.
Even rabbits insult an dead lion.
In chatter a river, in understanding but a single drop.
A fool is like a wanderer lost on a path.
Whom chance often passes by, it finds at last.
Knowledge has no enemies but the ignorant.
He goes as willingly as a thief to the gallows.
A bow long bent at length waxeth weak.
Think thoroughly before you act.
Once you put on? the wedding ring you must submit to all that is necessary.
Tie the donkey where the owner wants, and let the wolf come to devour him.
Promise little and do much.
While there's life, there's hope.
Too much bursts the bag.
A friend is not known but in need.
A small cloud may hide both sun and moon.
When you see many dogs at a bone, it's best to make yourself scarce.
If one has nothing to answer, it is best to shut up.
A Joke may have children born.
The skilfullest wanting money is scorned.
Let us look for the woman.
The italian invents it; the frenchman makes it; the germans sell it; the pole buys it and the tartar plunders it.
The braying of donkeys doesn't reach heaven.
No time to waste like the present.
A coin to a cat.
Happiness is like a field you can harvest every season.
The leopard does not eat fish.
Every road does not lead to rome.
A lazy man will be an astrologer.
Postpone not a good action. In Gaelic: Ná cuir an mhaith ar cáirde.
A good fortune may forebode a bad luck, which may in turn disguise a good fortune.
The tail and repentance go behind.
The same water never runs into the same river.
Everything has an end.
The hair is woman's crown.
In the larger affairs the minor are forgotten.
Necessity is a strong weapon.
The chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
Beat your wife regularly; if you don't know why, she will.
Many a rose-cheeked apple is rotten at the core.
Your canine teeth can take you to the grave.
The deserter is the brother of the murderer.
Not to oversee workmen, is to leave your purse open.
A woman is as old as she wishes to tell you.
Tigers and deer do not stroll together.
A bottle of oil warmed over the fire has no means of producing oil by itself.
The devil does not sleep.
He is rich enough who does not want.
Don't use oiled paper to wrap up fire.
A life of leisure and a life of laziness are different things.
Leave a bit of the tail to whisk off flies.
The barking of dogs does not reach heaven.
Mackerel sky and mares' tails make lofty ships carry low sails.
The cheap thing isn't without problem, the expensive without help.
Whatever you sow, that's what you'll reap.
Too many hands will row the boat up a mountain.
He who is afraid of a thing gives it power over him.
If you have a business you have to smile at everyone.
She is nether fish nor fowl.
A kopeck saves the rouble, and the rouble guards your head.
A friend is someone who walks by your side.
An ivory tooth is not cure for the lost tooth.
A tree that grows in the shade of another one will die small.
When the measure is full, it runs over.
It is a poor parish where the priest has to ring his own bells.
Speaks French like an English horse.
He who would serve everybody gets thanks from nobody.
The river may is wide, but it can crossed..
The tired mare goes willingly to grass.
Copper begets copper, and not (the labour of) men's bones.
It is an honourable thing to be accused by those who are open to accusation.
A hungry belly has no ears.
A good archer is not known by his arrows, but his aim.
One today is better than ten tomorrows.
Adversity exists to be overcome.
Blessed is the man who has friends, but woe to him who needs them.
A lame man won't walk with one who is lamer.
The soul goes to God, the body to the earth, and belongings to those to whom they should go.
Do not drink poison to quench a thirst.
It is not the big farmers who reap all the harvest.
Great mansions have slippery doors.
Do not follow a person who is running a way.
May God strike the rich man blind by his own gold.
You don't go to heaven in a carriage.
Set the sails according to the wind.
For every evil under the sun there is a remedy or there is none.
An aimless wanderer wears away his legs.
He who does not cultivate his field, will die of hunger.
A man that flatters his neighbour spreads a net for his feet.
He who thinks badly commits a sin but hits the mark.
If the devil is going to disguise himself, it will be as a monk or a lawyer.
Haste is good only for catching flies.
As long as you live, you learn.
Nobody wants to buy a sleeping horse.
A proverb is a short, pithy saying that expresses a traditionally held truth or piece of advice, based on common sense or experience.
Other people's eggs have two yolks.
God is good, but not crazy.
Every man shall bear his own burden.
A person's heart is in his feet.
Blood is inherited and virtue is acquired.
Wit without discretion is a sword in the hand of a fool.
Marry in Lent, and you'll live to repent.
There's no smoke with fire.
If you want something, go yourself, if not, send somebody else.
Through bumps, one learns to walk.
When the wolf grows old the crows ride him.
A cautious man will observe the indications of character which nature reveals in others.
If it were God's will, you could shoot with a broom too.
The fruit doesn't fall far from the tree.
Men make houses, women make homes.
A forced kindness deserves no thanks.
Let him speak soft words and offer wealth who longs for a woman's love.
Weddings and widowings are by the hand of destiny.
Everyone loves justice in the affairs of another.
Love is like a baby; it needs to be treated tenderly.
Sour grapes will ne'er make sweet wine.
One may better steal a horse than another look over the hedge.
Two are the masters of one.
Where the pupil is willing; the teachers will appear.
All women are good Lutherans, they would rather preach than hear mass.
If you give a man nuts then give him something to crack them with.
Even if you hide yourself from the world, don't lose sight of your real nature.
Clothes cover up character.
Love rules without a sword and binds without a cord.
To be in love and act wisely is scarcely granted to a god.
Gods help those who do.
Don't scratch your shoe when it's your foot that itches.
If you rush things, you'll just make others laugh.
Asses carry the oats and horses eat them.
A table is not blessed if it has fed no scholars.
Where a river flows, there is abundance.
Two bigs will not go in one bag.
It is difficult to get many heads under one hat.
Even a stupid one seems wise when he isn't talking.
No one is dragged to heaven by the hair.
Quhen the iron is hot, it is time to strike.
To a woman and a magpie tell your secrets in the marketplace.
Though the proverb is abandoned, it is not falsified.
Postpone today's anger till tomorrow.
To know and to act are one and the same.
Doubt is the key to all knowledge.
Be sure before you marry of a house wherein to tarry.
Write the bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece of marble.
Don't buy a boat that is under water.
The smoke of my own house is better than another man's fire.
Tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all.
He has a ton of knowledge, but the bottom is out.
Prickly pear trees dont produce peaches.
Marriage must occur early or it will never happen.
Moderate profits fill the purse.
The beggar's bag is bottomless.
Don't be too sweet, or else you will be eaten up; but don't be too bitter, or else you will be spitted out.
Woman, impromptu; man, on reflection.
When the mice laugh at the cat, there is a hole nearby.
A house without a woman is like a fire without a bucket.
A child who protested when being stripped on the back by its mother, it's humbled by the scorching sun when left to walk.
Measure three times and cut once.
Bury your own dead.
Virtue is not left to stand alone.
A young branch can be straightened, a mature one breaks.
Gluttony and vanity grow with age.
Hard with hard makes not the stone wall.
Sickness, if it doesn't kill, it purifies.
A small debt makes a debtor, a heavy one an enemy.
A people without faith in themselves cannot survive.
The mouth that says "Yes,” can say "No.”.
The devil always paints himself black, but we always see him rose-colored.
The prince is never guilty in his father's court.
A wise man who knows proverbs, reconciles difficulties.
It takes a tree ten years to mature; it takes a man one hundred years to form.
Fortune is weary to carry one and the same man always.
If the devil catch a man idle he'll set him at work.
Its no use going to the goat's house to look for wool.
At court there are many hands, but few hearts.
The courteous learn their virtue from the discourteous.
A lean calf forgets to skip.
Other times, other folk.
Every pot has a matching lid.
Dog and cat friendship.
Feed a cold and starve a fever.
Aid yourself and the lord will come.
If a stone stays in one place, it becomes overgrown with grass.
Cook in June and July, dish it out in August and September.
Good words cost nothing and arc worth much.
Listen to the voice of your blood.
With poison, one drop is enough.
A fair-weather friend changes with the wind.
He who stays near vermilion gets stained red; he who stays near ink gets stained black.
Laith to bed and laith to rise.
The greatest of all faults is to be conscious of none.
He who says what will I do will never lack what to do.
Fire is a good servant but a poor master.
The delicacy of the feast is the learned guest.
One year of joy, another of comfort, and all rest of content.
The greatest evidence of demoralization is the respect paid to wealth.
Don't sell the bearskin before you have caught the bear.
He who sowed wind, reaps a typhoon.
When the cost is high think about it, when it's low, buy a lot.
Carrying coals to Newcastle.
Source: S. W. Fallon; Sir Richard Carnac Temple; Faqir Chand (Lala.) (1998). A dictionary of Hindustani proverbs. Asian Educational Services. p. 119. ISBN 978-81-206-0663-0.
The world belongs to the phlegmatic.
For fault of wise men fools sits on binks.
Over-intelligent people can't find friends.
Character can be built on daily routine.
Another man's trade costs money.
They are not all friends who laugh with you.
It is good rowing with set sail.
In times of need a pig is called uncle.
ah, they are boundless.
You never miss a slice from a cut loaf.
Envy follows merit like the shadow follows the body.
One hand cannot clap.
Draff's good enough for swine'.
All is fair in love and golf.
If a link is broken, the whole chain breaks.
The poor man's proverb is never quoted.
There's no fool like an old fool.
Because he has so many trades, he is unemployed.
A fish follows the bait.
A three inch tongue -- the iron bulwark of politics.
The dog that is forced into the woods will not hunt many deer.
Take two and hit to right.
Opportunity seldom knocks twice.
If the imam farts, the community will shit.
I cried when I was born and as each day passes I know why.
The newborn baby yells; you die in silence.
A straight stick looks crooked in the water.
A restive morsel needs a spur of wine.
Another's damage is soon forgotten.
Do not judge your fellow man until you have stood in his place.
Well begun is half done.
A son-in-law's friendship is a winter's sun.
Iron may be rubbed so long that it gets heated.
One drop of poison infects the whole of wine.
Reason succeeds where force fails.
Comes time, comes counsel.
I have never seen anyone go astray who followed along the right way.
Fresh fish and new-come guests smell in three days.
The branch that bears the most fruit bends itself thankfully towards the ground.
To err is human; to keep it up is folly.
It is not enough to run; you must start on time.
You will not dare mistreating the face you see in the morning.
A day is long, but a lifetime is short.
Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad.
If everyone swept the pavement in front of his house, the whole street would be clean.
Every man goes down to his death bearing in his hands only that which he has given away.
A goose is not a pig's friend.
It grieveth one dog that another goeth into the kitchen.
A man must put grain in the ground before he can cut the harvest.
What is in use, wants no excuse.
An egg does not fight a rock.
It is sometimes good to hold a candle to the devil.
Rest breeds rust.
What is delayed may happen later.
Clouds that thunder do not always rain.
Winning isn't everything, it's the only thing.
Burn not your house to scare away the mice.
I stubborn and you stubborn, who is to carry the load?
A friend is better than money in the purse.
When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is in a jumble.
Where old age is evil, youth can learn no good.
For the ugly vice of begging, there's the virtue of not giving.
Hatred watches while friendship sleeps.
The excess of a virtue is a vice.
Wear no sword at kinsman's board.
A young ewe and an old ram, every year bring forth a lamb.
Eat fam'bly bittle but no cut fam'bly ‘tory.
Listening to good advice is the way to wealth.
More luck than wit.
It is better to be safe than sorry.
Other folks' cares kill the ass.
Might have gone further and have fared worse.
We get too soon old and too late smart.
Rats and conquerors must expect no mercy in misfortune.
A piece of churchyard fits everybody.
Anyone who teases you loves you.
He that laughs at his ain joke spoils the sport o't.
He who flatters with laughter wants to see you cry.
If you wish to know what a man is, place him in authority.
Today can't catch tomorrow.
Do not make an elephant out of a fly.
To die in the season of plague brings no honor.
A cracked pot never fell off the hook.
You do not fatten pigs with pure water.
Prosperity forgets father and mother.
An Aleppine can sell even a dried donkey skin.
Pigs are kissing: a year of acorns.
He has nothing, for whom nothing is enough.
Pig owners: Simo would marry those pigs or Simo would marry the owners of that pig.
The great wall stands; the builder is gone.
Without a cat mice have no restrictions.
A brother is a cooking pot, and a neighbour is a cooking pot lid.
No word is ill spoken, that is not ill taken.
Everybody joins to blame or condemn a child who overthrows the pot of soup.
The difference between appearances and truth is the same as between warping and weaving.
The air of a window is as the stroke of a cross-bow.
Mend or end.
There is bound to be a knot in a very long string.
The dog that has his bitch in town never barks well.
Dog don't get mad when you say he's a dog.
There is never trust without loss.
They that are bound must obey.
The fly flutters around the candle till it gets burnt.
Suspicion is the sister of the wrong.
Where there is no honour, there is no grief.
Wherever you find sugar, you'll find ants.
Rice is all one but they are many ways of cooking it.
A good neighbour, a good morrow.
Necessity never made a good bargain.
Falling with the door into the house.
A burden of one's own choice is not felt.
Marriage is heaven and hell.
A donkey's husband can protect it from a hyena.
A pear will never fall into a closed mouth.
The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth.
Cowards' weapons neither cut nor pierce.
Wealth comes like a turtle and goes away like a gazelle.
Fire is always a good maid, but a bad boss.
It befits the king to be liberal, for he is sure of never falling into poverty.
A tree often transplanted neither grows nor thrives.
When thou seest thy house in flames, go warm thyself by it.
A full belly is neither good for flight, nor for fighting.
One with the courage to laugh is master of the world almost as much as the one who is ready to die.
Thirst comes from drinking.
He who lives among wolves learns to howl.
If you want to be served, serve yourself.
He who does not look ahead always remains behind.
Do not expect good in return for a good deed.
No shame in asking questions, even to people of lower status.
The thorn comes into the world point foremost.
A married man has many sorrows - an unmarried man has one more.
There's never a wise man without fault.
A cask of wine works more miracles than a church full of saints.
A stone thrown at the right time is better than a stone thrown at the wrong time.
Words fly, writings remain.
Spare to speak and spare to speed.
Flatters, like cats, lick and then scratch.
Your feet will take you away from home but your stomach will bring you back.
Patience and the mulberry leaf become a silk robe.
Teaching should come from within instead of without.
To have five drachmas in the hand is better than ten drachmas on paper.
The great thieves lead away the little thieves.
It's raining cats and dogs.
Kind words will get a snake out of its hole.
The best looking-glass is the eyes of a friend.
If you want to kill a snake, chop off its head.
The elephant does not get tired of its tusks.
A rag and a bone and a hank of hair.
No one gets into trouble without his own help.
One must needs like what one cannot hinder.
A man who is trampled to death by an elephant is a man who is blind and deaf.
To believe in certainty, we must begin by doubting.
The wise man sits on the hole in his carpet.
Love others well, but love thyself the most; give good for good, but not to thine own cost.
A diamond with a flaw is worth more than a pebble without imperfections.
Where there is no wit within no wit will come out.
When a lion runs and looks back, its not that he is afraid, rather he is trying to see the distance he has covered.
Put a beggar into your barn and he will make himself your heir.
If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.
Burning the quilt because of the fleas.
A belching toad portends rain.
Better a little chiding than a good deal of heartache.
When thy neighbour's house is on fire it's time to look about thee.
Darkness shows no wrong path to she who gets what she wants before dark.
Bob's your uncle.
Noise and hunting don't go together.
A diamond doesn't lose its value due to lack of admiration.
Cheating is the chapman's cart and plough.
Who follows the elephant will have no problems.
A contented stomach, a forgiving heart; but an empty stomach pardons nothing.
He would even lie, there is no star in the sky.
Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns.
Who wasn't [out] in the sea, didn't pray to God.
The horse is not judged of by the saddle.
The nightime March snow disappears by day.
Honey is often bitter.
Open your ears to the ancestors and you will understand the language of spirits.
Lies are usually caused by undue fear of men.
A barking dog seldom bites.
He who tells the truth doesn't sin, but he causes many inconveniences.
A man never becomes an orator if he has something to say.
Good enough for Government work.
Donkey's lips don't fit onto a horse's mouth.
Pursue that course which offers most advantages, habit will soon make it agreeable and easy.
A stout heart tempers adversity.
If a warrior does not fight, he does not breathe.
Lie, but don't overdo it.
Live a good and useful life.
Get along with the village headman, plunder the village.
When a man is not liked, whatever he doth is amiss.
Who does not eat till he is full, won't lick himself satisfied.
He that is angry is seldom at ease.
Clear moon, frost soon.
A fool's voice is known by a multitude of words.
Where honour grows a span, folly grows an ell.
He that soweth good seed shall reap good corn.
Good riding at two anchors men have told, For it one break, the other yet may hold.
Short flax makes long thread.
There come just as many calf-skins as cow-skins to market.
Join with good men and you will be one of them.
Well-done outlives death.
April is the time for sweet sleep, don't take things off, don't put things on.
From several possible events, the less worse happened.
Hunger and cold give a man up to his enemy.
In a strange land one should always move near one's kinsmen.
If you want peace, you must prepare for war.
He who leaves his people will be left by God.
Instruct a man, you instruct an individual. Instruct a woman, you instruct a nation.
He takes from one ear, and lets it out from the other ear.
It is for saying that he has no time that the monkey's body became over-grown with long hairs.
Two bulls do not live in the same shade.
He that has the spice, may season as he list.
In prosperity think of adversity.
He who moves with each day is better than another who waits for luck.
A hair casts its shadow on the ground.
Never mock a fowl with raffled feathers it might have won a fight.
New trappings to an old mule.
Nobody's sweetheart is ugly.
The cheat always lies at the feet of the cheated.
The thread follows the needle.
Love many, trust few and always paddle your own canoe.
Many words do not fill a basket .
He that fears leaves, let him not go into the wood.
Respect a little child, and let it respect you.
That which is nearest a woman's heart is the first to come out.
Music and women should not be dated.
Better be envied than pitied.
The knowledge of sin is the beginning of salvation.
It is the first step that is difficult.
Love conceals ugliness, and hate sees many faults.
Honour to whom honour is due.
It's a poor frog who doesn't play with his own pond.
Luck has a slender anchorage.
After the storm ends, the sun will shine.
Tall branches are apt to be broken.
You cannot build a house for last year's summer.
Choose a wife from among your equals.
Presents from an enemy must be received with suspicion.
Lang ere ye saddle a foal.
He that doesn't know his bed is too hard sleeps well.
He who is covered with other people's clothes is naked.
Where there is laughter happiness likes to be.
A library is a repository of medicine for the mind.
The man who has never experienced evil does not know the worth of what is good.
What the heart desires is medicine to it.
Don't praise the day before sunset.
The arrow that missed the head of its target will never hit the tail.
A thousand people cannot undress a naked person.
Each to his own taste.
God lets things go - but only to a point.
Who digs the well should not be refused water.
Gold today, soil tomorrow.
He who holds the handle of the frying-pan turns it as he pleases.
A lord without riches is a soldier without arms.
Fine words without deeds go not far.
The fall of a leaf is a whisper to the living.
A fence does not enter another.
The trees never meet but people do.
One who cannot dance blames the floor.
He who hunts with cats will catch mice.
Whoever gossips to you will gossip about you.
Nine gamblers could not feed a single rooster.
He that knows least commonly presumes most.
Doth the moon on high care for the barking of a dog?
Love sees sharply, hatred sees even more sharp, but Jealousy sees the sharpest for it is love and hate at the same time.
Penny wise and pound foolish.
An italian only feels safe with his hook in his belt.
Religion will perish because of excessive comforts.
Better in an old carriage than in a new ship.
The gates of hell are always open, even at midnight.
When the devil reigns today God will be master tomorrow.
Never lay sorrow to your heart when others lay it to their heels.
Without salt the feast is sad.
Each has his own way of moving.
A father never resembles his son, it's the son that resembles the father.
There would be no good fortune had misfortune not helped.
Though the cage be made of gold, it's still a prison.
Where misfortune befals injuries follow.
The abbey does not fail for want on one monk.
Dry wood makes a quick fire.
True friends are tested in adversity.
You arrive mr. Big shot but leave mr. Nobody.
Donkeys and women, beat them with a stick, to keep them at task.
A good garden always has weeds.
The elbow is near, but try and bite it.
All asses do not go on four feet.
He who has four and spends five, has no need of a purse.
A lot got the crow to his mother.
A millstone gathers no moss.
A lonely old crow, see someone you know, Fly to your right, sure to be right, And if you are hawking, money before night.
Experience is a dear school, but fools learn in no other.
When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk.
He whose throat is longer than his arm must pray constantly for gods' protection.
The miller is never so drunk that he forgets to take his dues.
Better a bitter truth than a sweet lie.
Win your lawsuit and lose your money.
You must judge a man by the work of his hands.
Some days you get the bear, other days the bear gets you.
The river swells from the little streams.
A prudent man who knows proverbs, resolved problems.
An udara fruit that falls on the side of the road is asking to be eaten.
What is whispered in your ear tell not to your husband.
A fat woman warms even the coldest the night.
Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not having given it wings.
After shaving there is nothing to shear.
If you marry wise judgment, peace will become your brother-in-law.
There are some with thirty, some with thirty-one, with twenty-eight there is but one.
Quick to believe is quickly deceived.
The tongue is the mirror of the stomach.
The bone given to you by the king is meat.
Every one must row with the oars he has.
A chief may have more wives than he can remember but you dare not try to share his wives with him.
Comfort is better than pride.
Better a donkey that tarries than one that won't carry its load.
My spurs and another's horse.
Sleep after selling horses and elephants.
Death does not take the old but the ripe.
Even on old goat likes to lick salt.
Better to be a cuckold and not know it than to not be one and everybody say so.
The water in your well can be very hot, but it will never cook your rice.
The teeth that laugh are also those that bite.
Better a sick body than an ignorant mind.
The truth comes forward in wine.
When a fool has the cow by the horns, the wise man can milk it.
Throw a lucky man into the sea, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth.
Favour and gifts disturb justice.
Please the eye and plague the heart.
Iron does not clang by itself.
If you would make an enemy, lend a man money, and ask it of him again.
He who has no falcon must hunt with an owl.
The only sword that never rests is the tongue of a woman.
The only difference between the cucumber and water is the moving of the teeth.
Bees sting him who loves honey.
When the master has a cold the servants sneeze.
Give a rogue an inch, and he will take an ell.
To draw water into one's own rice field.
Doubtful the die, and dire the cast.
He stands the mud.
The old gray mare just ain't what she used to be.
With the first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy.
If a child is not well-behaved, she is not sent by the mother to go alone to the market to buy things for her.
A good well-lived today makes every yesterday a dream of a good future, and every morning is a vision of hope.
Ideas are something that usually comes like fireman- too late.
Why is the man from Luoto in the church, just sleeps and dreams of herrings?
As the twig is bent, so is the tree inclined.
Times tries a'.
Days are many, what is one is life.
Idleness is to be dead at the limbs but alive within.
Vegetable garden and mill, don't tell your neighbor how much they yield.
We are here to serve.
What a man suffers is the punishment of his tongue.
No matter how high the vulture may choose to soar, the eagle will remain king of the sky.
He who has loaves has dogs.
A chick that will grow into a cock can be spotted the very day it hatches.
No sunshine but hath some shadow.
Through other people's faults, wise men correct their own.
Profit is better than fame.
The roe is swift enough without setting the dogs on her.
Home is where the heart is... But the stars are made of latinum.
He that plays with cats must expect to be scratched.
Consider whether your fun will cause another's unhappiness.
An accomplishment sticks to a person.
The hottest music and dance always comes from home.
He is wise in vain who does not use his wisdom for his own advantage.
The communal donkey gets the heaviest burden.
A person worries about the past, distresses about the present, and fears the future.
Obey the customs of the village you enter.
Eagles fly alone, but sheep flock together.
If a flea had money, it would buy its own dog.
A good horse is worth his fodder.
Ill weeds are not hurt by frost.
When you are in a pack of hounds, you either bark or wag your tail.
[One's] own shirt [is] closer to the body.
An eagle's old age is worth a sparrow's youth.
No land without stones, no meat without bones.
Lice flourish in rags.
If a cat wants to eat her kittens, she'll say that they look like mice.
Win or lose, there's always huyperian beetle snuff.
Priests and road signs show you the way but don't go with you.
Who is not satisfied with himself will grow; who is not sure of his own correctness will learn many things.
A great thrust of a lance at a dead Moor.
Much noise from nothing.
Flies flock to the lean horse.
He does not think small beer of himself.
When the drummers change their beats the dancers must also change their Steps.
He makes a rod for his own back. (14th century)
A drowning man catches even at a stalk of straw.
After becoming a thief, one becomes an outcast.
Pissed off like a little squirrel with a frozen pine cone.
Union is source of success.
Nae wonder to see wasters want.
Gratitude of a donkey is a kick.
The best gifts are those which expect no return.
I am king, you a king: who is to fetch the water?
Your friend, one doesn't stare at his forehead, one stares at his stomach.
She is always in the field when luck is on the road (To be said of an unfortunate friend) .
Have patience, the grass will be milk soon enough.
A good soldier has only three things to think about; the king, God, and nothing.
Abuse is like a god that destroys his master.
The church is near, but the way is icy. The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully.
Even he gets on who is drawn by oxen.
Eat bread at pleasure, drink wine by measure.
It will not last longer than frying an egg.
No matter how kind a man might be he cannot accept to share his wife.
He measures others with his own yard.
Gold without wisdom is but clay.
His brains hang at the top of his fez.
If you want clear water, draw it from the spring.
A horn spoon holds no poison.
It's evil to give meat to those who do not eat meat.
His hens lay eggs with two yolks.
Tasty fish have to swim three times: once in the water, then in butter, and finally in wine.
Every man wears his belt his ain gait.
Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.
Another person's soul is [in] darkness.
A crowd is like a smoldering log which can spark into a flame at any time.
Who troubles others has no rest himself.
Don't let women who attract attention walk behind you.
A misty winter brings a pleasant spring, a pleasant winter a misty spring.
Eat with your mouth, pay with your back.
Grasp all, lose all.
Many will show you the way once your cart has overturned.
Do not strip before bedtime.
Too much bed makes a dull head.
He that lives with wolves, must howl with wolves.
Transgressions should never be forgiven a third time.
Humid weather, smelly air.
A lie travels farther than the truth.
If you see the fangs of the lions, don't think the lion is smiling.
Where there is no vision, people perish.
Death carries on its shoulders a heavy Tsar just as easily as a light beggar.
No one ever became poor through giving alms.
Entering the village, obey the village.
It is the woman whose child has been eaten by a witch who best knows the evils of witchcraft.
Behind the cross stands the devil.
The lame man laughs at the blind.
Under white ashes lie often glowing embers.
A baker's dozen.
A person who is always nice is not always nice.
The smallest good deed is better than the grandest good intention.
If the metal is not good, you cannot take it out on the blacksmith.
Even though the peel of the palm nut has no pulpy substance in it, it is stripped off all the same.
Where the best wine grows, the worst is drunk.
When it thunders in March, it brings sorrow.
Thus years glide by.
Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant, it is still blown by a man's mouth.
The greater love is a mother's; then comes a dog's; then a sweetheart's.
Well-regulated charity begins with one's self.
Upbraiding makes a benefit an injury.
A heard head makes a soft behind.
You have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you.
He who lingers around will hear bad things spoken about him.
When the river is filled, Be quick to fetch some into your bucket.
He that promises too much means nothing.
Not all those who are old are wise.
Eternal peace lasts only until the next war.
To stop drinking, study a drunkard when you are sober.
Knotty timber must have sharp wedges.
Charity excuseth not cheating.
Frivolous talk is like shooting without aiming.
Play alone and you're bound to win.
"o what we must suffer for the sake of God's church!” said the abbot, when the roast fowl burned his fingers.
We make big promises to avoid little presents.
Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle.
Providence may delay, but punishment will come at length.
Experience purchased by suffering teaches wisdom.
Two cocks in one yard do not agree.
One ducat before the trial is worth three afterwards.
Take heed is a good reed.
A mother can more easily feed seven children than seven children can feed one mother.
The mean is the best.
Don't try to make predictions - especially those concerning the future.
A crow doesn't pick out another crow's eyes. (A thief does not steal from another thief)
A silver hammer can open an iron gate.
You should never stop the plough to kill a mouse.
He that lives carnally won't live eternally.
He came time enough who was hung by candlelight.
Cheese, wine, and a friend must be old to be good.
Keeping the finger on the wrist.
Where life is exhausted, death comes.
Double drinks are good for drouth.
Who has never had good sense, and by age thirty still doesn't, certainly will never have it after that.
Love your neighbor, but keep your fence.
Naught must disturb a man of worth at dinner.
O daughter, I'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it.
When you're enjoying prosperity, be wary of adversity.
The silent mouth is golden.
An old quarrel is easily renewed.
A frog in a well-shaft seeing the sky.
No Jew a fool; no hare lazy.
Children are what they are made.
Dirty like politics.
A miser's money takes the place of wisdom.
The sun will bring to light what lay under the snow.
On thin ice everybody have the same strength.
Silks and satins put out the kitchen fire.
When the danger has passed, the saints are soon forgotten.
If you conduct yourself properly, fear no one.
Knowledge is wealth that can't be stolen.
Cleanliness is the luxury of the poor.
If you speak too much, you will learn too little.
Friends are known in time of need.
Him with a bold head knows how to protect it through thorns.
Nothing is worse than waiting or chasing.
Do what you ought, come what may.
Seeking fish? Don't dive in the pond; go home and get a net.
A son-in-law and a pig will show you the way only once.
Crime doesn't pay.
Don't count your chicken before they hatch.
Pride comes before a fall.
The gods just laugh when men pray to them for wealth.
Counsel before action.
With one ear he hears, and with the other he dismisses.
A father is a banker provided by nature.
Everyone knows the monkey, but the monkey knows no one.
A lie can take you far away-but with no hope of return.
Everything tastes bitter to him with gall in his mouth.
You have many strings to your bow.
Love for a person must extend to the crows on his roof.
The rest is silence. (William Shakespeare, Hamlet)
Everyone is emperor on his own ground.
God is slow, but he does not forget.
Confidence begets confidence. (Strauss 1994, p. 187)
When the government has no ears to listen with, then she has no head for governing.
He who marries a real beauty is seeking trouble.
Fair words butter no cabbage.
Save money and money will save you.
Children speak in the field what they hear in the house.
If you care for healing the tooth of a tutsi that he recovers, he will surely bite you to-morrow.
He who quits does not win, he who wins does not quit.
He has gotten a bite of his ain bridle.
The breath of others always stinks.
Study from new books but from old teachers.
Many a man has been guarding the bush and another plucking the fruit.
There'll be a holiday in our street too.
If you want some lies to be believed wrap them up in truths.
Some are very busy and yet do nothing.
He is a fairy Cook, that may not lick his own fingers.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
One time "here you are" is better than ten times "heaven help you."
Never write what you dare not sign.
The drunkard and the glutton come to poverty, and drowsiness clothes a man with rags.
If the pedestal is beautiful the statue must be even more beautiful.
Not all who go to church go there to pray.
Would you live long, be healthy and fat, drink like a dog and eat like a cat.
Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning.
Punctuality is the sole of business.
The promises of love and the smoke of a chimney, washed by water and blown away by the wind.
If you must play, decide upon three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time.
In spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to what the woman has been thinking all winter.
Have patience and the mulberry leaf will become satin.
Great souls have wills; feeble ones have only wishes.
Lock your door rather than suspect your neighbor.
Don't cry before you are hurt.
The difficult thing is to get foot in the stirrup.
Eloquence avails nothing against the voice of gold.
Widows weep but they look for another husband.
Better a red face than a black heart.
Patience makes all hardships light.
He on whose head we would break a coconut never stands still.
There is little peace in that house where the hen crows and the cock is mute.
Don't call in the doctor after the funeral.
Life is -- not separate from death.
If you sow arrows, you will reap sorrows.
Speaking comes by nature, silence by understanding.
It's a poor sheep that cannot carry its own wool.
We rest our legs, but never our mouths.
Three who held each other are as good as six.
You can't escape death and guests.
Ragged colts make fine horses.
It's good to watch the rain from a dry standpoint.
Simplicity: much happiness is lost in the pursuit of it.
You can buy everything, except a father and a mother.
A learned man without work is a cloud without rain.
He that counts all costs will never put plough in the earth.
A still tongue maketh a wise head.
Every man to his taste.
A silent mouth never did any harm.
It is good speaking that improves good silence.
Knowledge without practice is nothing.
Fear the law not the judge.
Bathe other people's children but don't wash behind their ears.
You sail in the same boat.
Thanks to the word of his personal god, the fate of the man who speaks just words is favourable, and he is with him throughout the day.
Better keep, than have to beg.
A bad rumor is better than bad news.
To be a hero hang on for a minute longer.
A king of Whitsuntide.
What can you expect from a pig but a grunt?
He who sows money, will reap poverty.
Where everyone goes, the grass never grows.
If you want a thing well done, do it yourself. (1616)
From the boat we get to the ship.
If you would enjoy its fruit, pluck not the blossom.
If luck is with you, even your ox will give birth to a calf.
A blank page is God's way of showing you how hard it is to be God.
Tomorrow says the lazy.
The man that serves is not prevented from being served in turn.
Could everything be done twice, everything would be done better.
You already possess everything necessary to become great.
Remain among the clumps of grass and do not elevate yourself.
No sin goes unpunished.
Fortune give many too much, but no one enough.
Those who sleep with dogs gets up with fleas.
The flowers of others are red.
All good things come to an end.
Two thirds of the work is the semblance.
A fly can drive away horses.
Where there's music there can be love.
Looks like a runaway from the gravedigger.
A good deed will make a good neighbor.
The Dog barks to keep itself, not the village.
Hope is the last thing ever lost.
No man ought to be twice tried for the same offence.
When there is trust, no proof is necessary.
An answer in a word.
No man ought to look a gift horse in the mouth.
The Lord gives cold according to one's clothes.
Let people take and dogs bark.
Bad luck is fertile.
Never swap horses crossing a stream.
If you starve for three days, there is no thought that does not invade your imagination.
Who heeds not little things, will be troubled about lesser ones.
Laws go where money pleases.
A mother is gold, a father is a mirror.
He must have keen eyes that would know a maid at sight.
Better a man of straw than a woman of gold.
Who does not obey the parents' word will be taught by the world.
The child weeps for it's good and the old man for his ill.
The dogs bark, but the caravan passes on.
After-wit is dear bought.
He swallows the frog.
So many houses, so many customs.
He sins as much who holds the bag as he who puts into it.
Taking advantage of a murky/confusing situation.
People only throw stones at trees with fruit on them.
The future struggles against being mastered.
He is a fool that makes his doctor his heir.
A person who talks a lot usually is empty inside.
There is no way you can pour water into a basket and expect the water to remain.
His word is as good as a tied knot.
How tight can life be without the space of hope.
What the goat does, the kid follows.
Think twice, say once.
Where there is peace, god is.
The elephant never gets tired of carrying its tusks.
The more you court a clown the statelier he grows.
If you don't know death look at the grave.
Better to die on your feet than to live on your knees.
Good ware makes quick markets.
No sleep, no dream.
A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
A Cock is crouse upon his own midding.
Take care you don't let your tail be caught in the door.
A thread will tie an honest man better than a chain a rogue.
Have faith and God will provide.
The rich get richer, and the poor get babies.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
Deliberate before you act.
The neck cannot become the head.
Man is harder than a stone and more brittle than an egg.
Whether it be so or not, husband, put on your hood.
Who has plenty of pepper may pepper his beans.
If God didn't like beautiful women, he wouldn't have made them.
The cow is milked, not the ox; the sheep is shorn, not the horse.
A child who is carried on the back will not know how far the journey is.
If the peacock were to look at its feet, it would stop him strutting.
Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald; if you seize her by the forelock, you may hold her, but, if suffered to escape, not Jupiter himself can catch her again.
Hard as a rock.
Egotism is an alphabet of one letter.
The bigger the chance, the less the security.
Good resolutions are like babies crying in church, they should be carried out immediately.
Hear the evidence before you pass sentence.
One may live without one's friends but not without one's pipe.
Good qualities never cancel out the bad, just as sugar is no antidote for poison.
Keep fire away from straw.
Do not talk Arabic in the house of a Moor.
Where there are six cooks, there is nothing to eat.
Intelligence hoy don't leave, understanding don't failǃ.
He goes about it like a cat round hot milk.
Both the fast and the slow will meet each other on the ferry boat.
A friend is like a water source for a long journey.
When a lion cannot find the flesh to feed on, it has no choice but to eat the grass.
Since excuses were invented, no one is ever in the wrong.
Idleness is the root of all evil.
The people who talk the best are not the only ones who can tell you the most interesting things.
Men worship the rising, not the setting sun.
Only an enemy without honor refuses to show himself in battle.
Polygamy makes a husband a double-tongued man.
A thief is caught by his fellow thief.
Whither shall the ox go, where he will not have to plough?
They that will not be counselled cannot be helped.
A hungry ass needs not a blow.
Who laughs at others' ills, has his own behind the door.
Big mouthfuls often choke.
Where there is no love there is no charity.
The king cannot always rule as he wishes.
The flock follow the bell-wether.
A Haughty person will not even reach down to take his own nose if it had fallen to the ground.
The weight of years is the heaviest load.
If you close your eyes to facts, you will learn through accidents.
The devil can quote Scripture to his own advantage.
Coyote is always out there waiting, and Coyote is always hungry.
Alle Wähg goont noh Rom.
'what shall i add for the poor?' asked god. 'fingernails and itch,' answered the poor.
When the hare leaps, there are no lame greyhounds.
Jealousy is cruel as the grave.
The answerer is inferior to the asker.
The pot that boils too much loses its flavour.
He comes with incense in one hand, in the other a spear.
First kill the bear then sell its skin.
Kings have many ears and many eyes.
Water runs a whole mile downstream easier than an inch upstream.
When you try to stay on the surface of the water, you sink; but when you try to sink, you float.
A pound a fret can't pay an ounce a debt.
Do not dig a hole for somebody else; you yourself will fall into it.
Easy come easy go.
The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it.
Kindnesse will creep where it may not gang.
Words are like bullets; if they escape, you can't catch them again.
A still tongue makes a wise head.
Beware of the person with nothing to lose.
A bad rower blames the oar.
You let the cat out of the bag.
Unwillingness ends in groaning.
* Tallement des Réaux, Historiettes, Volume I, Chapter I (c. 1657–1659); reported as a proverb in Hoyt's New Cyclopedia Of Practical Quotations (1922), p. 639.
He who has no shoes dances in his socks.
It is a poor family that hath neither a whore nor a thief in it.
When a bonsai stops growing, you know it's dead.
Prefer the leader who comes to you.
Servants differ as their masters.
Long runs the fox, but at last is caught.
It's better to not read at all than to believe everything you read. The day you decide to do it is your lucky day.
Go not with every ailment to the doctor, nor with every plaint to lawyer.
Silent tongue and hempen heart often go together.
Lenin's science strengthens the mind and the hands.
It is too late to lock the stable when the horse has been stolen.
Your first accident may be your last.
A nation without a language is a nation without a heart.
If the fire does not burn you the smoke will blacken you.
Eat at pleasure; drink by measure.
Of oil, wine, and friends, the oldest.
The one who loves you will make you cry, the one who hates you will make you laugh.
Asking is the sister of knowing.
Give credit where credit is due.
Another's mouth cannot take the oath for you.
The talkers aren't strong; the strong don't talk.
Turn of phrase.
There is no reason for war that reasonable men can't settle.
All that's said in the kitchen should not be told in the hall.
The road to success is always under construction.
Every beginning is hard, said the thief, when he began by stealing an anvil.
A friend's envy is worse than an enemy's hatred.
The house-roof fights with the rain, but he who is sheltered ignores it.
To cut into another's man's ear is like cutting into a felt hat.
They said to the fox, the fox said to its tail.
You eat an egg, but you don't understand how painful it was for the chicken.
Give the devil his due.
To the donkey thorns taste better than hay.
The cat also likes fish but keeps away from water.
A bird that prays for rain will find its self soaked.
A lawyer's fee and a harlot's wages are paid in advance.
A poor dancer will be disturbed even by the hem of her skirt.
An enemy does not sleep.
Great talk and little action.
Iron kills iron dies.
It is not tint that is done to friends.
A fool talks most when he has the least to say.
A swallow doesn't make the summer.
A gilt bridle for an old mule.
Moscow does not believe in tears.
Never ask God to give you anything; ask Him to put you where.
Old countries don't disappear overnight; they stay for breakfast.
After clouds comes clear weather.
The only cure for love is marriage.
Professionals built the ‘Titanic,' amateurs built the ark.
Never limp before the lame.
Revenge is the best revenge.
That which you put into your soup kettle, comes latter onto your spoon.
Slow fires will smolder for a long time.
An ass with her colt goes not straight to the mill.
Keep your counsel arrested until it's requested.
Ane mans meat is another mans poyson.
He that would be a leader must be a bridge.
He who wants authority should never be a visitor.
A man lives long in his native place.
If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance.
Rain falls on everyone, but one person gets wetter than the rest.
The person who gets stuck on trivial prosperity will not attain great prosperity.
The public improves the speaker's speech.
The devil likes to souse what is already wet.
A rotten coconut in a heap spoils the wholesome ones.
He who gives little gives from his heart; he who gives much gives from his wealth.
Who divides honey with the bear, will be like to get the lesser share..
Look before you leap, For snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
He who does not gain loses.
Use your wit as a shield, not as a dagger.
Winter never rots in the sky.
Near is my kirkle, but nearer is my smock.
From someone else's cart you have to get off halfway.
A mill cannot grind with water that is past.
If the fish comes out of the river to tell you that the crocodile has one eye, you should believe it.
When you enter a great enterprise, free your soul from weakness.
There is not strength without unity.
Good bargains empty the purse.
Getting only a beautiful woman is like planting a vine on the roadside everyone feeds on it.
When you are crossing over a river you might be eaten by crocodiles, but don't let yourself get bitten by the little fish.
The fox may lose his hair, but not his cunning.
Where there is content there is abundance.
If you want to understand men, study women.
Idleness is the key of poverty.
Advice to a fool goes in at one ear and out at the other.
A good horse never needs a whip.
As the sow fills the draff sours.
Tell a lie and the truth will come to light.
He who has crossed the flood knows how deep it is.
The state of a nation is reflected in the home.
His face would hang him.
You do not need a big stick to break a cock's head.
The pillar of the world is hope.
When the mouse has had enough the meal is bitter.
To threaten the brave with death is like promising water to a duck.
A dog with a bone knows no friends.
The gardener's dog does not eat lettuce and will not let others eat it.
In April, tons of water.
The poor fool is a man who falls on his back and breaks his nose.
Stones hurled to the sky. Don't get angry if you get hit.
Life is short; but it barely takes a second to smile.
Silence is gold, talking is silver.
Karma and shadows follow one everywhere.
His auld brass will buy a new pan.
Only moving forward.
All mouth and no trousers. All talk and no action.
The water that a ship sails on is the same water that swallows it up.
Sauna without birch switch is like a wedding without bride.
One sent by a woman does not fear death.
It is an easy thing to find a staff to beat a dog.
One day in perfect health is a lot.
Every clown can find fault, though it would puzzle him to do better.
The king's cheese goes half away in parings.
The cow that does not eat with the oxen, either eats before or after them.
Beads about the neck, and the devil in the heart.
Fools rejoice for a bad thing.
The longest way round is the shortest way home.
Many a one leaves the roast who afterwards longs for the smoke of it.
Have a mouth as sharp as a dagger, but a heart as soft as tofu.
We do not walk on our legs, but on our will.
A great talker may be no fool, but he is one who relies on him.
A pair of light shoes is not all that is needed for dancing.
All's fish that comes to the net.
What three men know then the whole world knows.
It's not polite to eat just the center of the cheese and just the crust of the bread.
What is fated to be yours will always return to you.
The salary of a good servant is never too high.
To lend is to buy a quarrel.
God provides, but He needs a nudge.
A rotten fish pollutes the whole kitchen.
Flies will not land on a boiling pot.
He who keeps his mouth shut, dies without confession.
Power is strengthened by union.
Rather lose the wool than the sheep.
In July, shear your rye.
Pipe is nearer to woman.
Good advice is given, good esteem is not given.
You may never die before death arrives.
Muckle spoken, part spilt.
You can see heaven through the eye of the needle.
A secret remains a secret only when one person knows it.
Self is the best farmhand.
A boy is better unborn than untaught.
Discover not your silent money to anybody.
When the sky falls down, the earth shall melt.
People live like birds in the woods: when the time comes, each must take flight.
A wise will is dedicated to the ancestors for its them who gave you everything.
Who gets married to a thin woman will know bitterness and strife, who marries a plump woman will be contented at the table and sleeping chamber.
A child's back must be bent early.
It is no business of mine; may it go to the devil!
Constant dripping wears away the rock.
No mad dog runs seven years.
Firm breasts don't last long.
Education is a gift that none can take away.
Everyone put up his mind for sale on the market, and liked his own mind.
He buys a cat in a poke.
The well-fed sheep makes a cloak of its tail.
Consult anyone, even your knees.
A good leader was once a good follower.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Third time pays for all.
She who is a beauty is half married.
No moon, no man.
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you.
The heart is a tree; it grows where it wants.
When you see your neighbour's beard being cut, put yours in water.
Conscience cannot be compelled.
Good sense is of greater value than wealth.
He who gets drenched at dawn has the rest of the day to dry out.
No matter how hard you try, a bull will never give milk.
A lock is better than suspicion.
Between wording and working is a long road.
You do not teach the paths of the forest to an old gorilla.
Happiness rarely keeps company with an empty stomach.
Judge a man not by the words of his mother, but from the comments of his neighbors.
Seek not ever to draw to thyself in love-whispering another's wife.
Hedgehogs are not to be killed with the fist.
Freedom for the free and heaven for the saved.
He whose mistress squints, says the ogles.
I simply state what I have heard.
Dogs bark, but the caravan keeps on.
Great blessings come from Heaven; small blessings come from man.
It is easy to die - the difficulty lies in living.
The wise man boasts of his goods and wares; the foolish one of his young wife.
Many geese overpower a pig.
A man does not become a savant by licking ink.
Where you father has been with ink, go not you with a bag.
It takes two to lie, one to lie and one to listen.
Better a good dinner than a fine coat.
A dead man's will is the mirror of his life.
After the storm comes the good weather.
If flesh is not to be had, fish must content us.
He who is guilty believes that all men speak ill of him.
God grant me to dispute with those who understand me.
That what comes to stay has come it cannot return.
An old coachman loves the crack of the whip.
Forgetting the cow, when going out to plough.
He who carries too much tenderness will become a slave.
Criticizing another's garden doesn't keep the weeds out of your own.
I wish I were at home.
It is difficult to spit honey out of a mouth full of gall.
A morsel eaten gains no friend.
Each person knows where problems lie.
'tis too late to spare, when the bottom is bare.
Choose a wife with your ears, not your eyes.
The devil's wiser more on account of his age than on account of being the devil.
When the flock makes an about-face, the stragglers become leaders.
It is the mountains that do not move to help one another; but one man surely comes to the help of another.
A coward often deals a mortal blow to the brave.
A hand that has been chopped off cannot steal any more.
Summer sown corn and women's advice turn out once in every seven years.
Do not bear ill will toward those who tell you the truth.
God gives but does not lock the gate.
The one who went to the in-laws got trapped in a thorn tree.
Meikle Head, little Wit.
If you lie on the ground, you cannot fall.
A bear that dances in your neighbor's house might soon dance in yours.
The mocked may grow up to dignity, but the mocker will never outgrow his juvenile behaviour.
Always be well dressed, even when begging.
It is hard to teach old dogs to bark.
Let every one mind his own business, and the cows will be well tended.
Further from the eye – closer to the heart.
Empty casks make the most noise.
Love truth even if it harms you, and hate lies even if they serve you.
Two things prolong your life: A quiet heart and a loving wife.
Ignorance is the death of the living.
A handsome hostess is bad for the purse.
A house: you can know who built it, but not who is enjoying it.
Wealth, like want, ruins mony.
The happy man rises with the sun.
When the steed's stown lock the stable door.
You cannot kill an elephant with bullets of wax.
The land of marriage has this peculiarity: That strangers are desirous of inhabiting it, while its natural inhabitants would gladly be exiled.
Don't cross yourself before seeing the Devil.
Lose a leg rather than life.
The eyeless ant asked God: Give me eye-lashes.
Pride will have a fall.
Look high and fall low.
Fortune gives her hand to a bold man.
Good care prevents accidents.
There is no need for fish in an empty pond.
No man is quick enough to enjoy life to the full.
A drunken night makes a cloudy morning.
If you decide to dress up a lizard you should count for its tail.
Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, storm and hail.
Don't tell your important secret to your friend because your friend has his other friends as well.
Misfortunes come on horseback and depart on foot.
It's a silly pack that may not pay the custom.
Do not put your head in front of your words.
To get rid of anger, first weed out the bitter roots.
Virtue never dwells alone, it always has neighbors.
It's hard to take britches off bare hips.
Ye watna where a blessing may light.
A proverb does not answer itself.
People are man's medicine.
The heavier the purse, the lighter the heart.
Journey and you will find replacement to the ones left behind.
Extol the virtue of water, but drink wine.
Wisdom is power.
Chairs sink and stools rise.
Your own faults look as big to the other fellow as his do to you.
A wife is like clothes and banana plant needs weeding.
Better be a fool than a knave.
The old branch breaks when it is bent.
One palm nut cannot be peeled twice.
Courage without conduct is like a ship without ballast.
Luck favors the bold.
He must have a long spoon who sups with the devil.
The first marriage is a plate of honey, the second a glass of wine, and the third is a cup of poison.
He that praise publicly will slander privately.
No offense taken when none is meant.
What never kills a herdsman never takes away his cattle.
The bird that pecks at a rock trusts in the strength of its beak.
One should not bow before stupidity merely because it is old.
When death comes, it will not go away empty.
He that falls to-day may be up again to-morrow.
Rejoice not at thine enemy's fall”–but don't rush to pick his up, either.
Two scorpions living in the same hole will get along better than two sisters in the same house.
Cowards win no laurels.
You cannot drive a windmill with a pair of bellows.
It goes like cuts of a whip.
The blight ness of the moon can only be experienced in total darkness.
The silent dog is always the first to bite.
To him who can take what thou hast, give what he asks.
Bait the hook well and the fish will bite.
As long as the beard exists, the world clenches its fists.
Cockroach ain't had no right in fowl cock company.
Who eats a lot will do a lot.
You cannot serve God and the devil.
The worm grazes where it's born.
Ill got, ill spent.
The old bull has a stronger horn.
Cultures are born and die, but the cheese is immortal.
When you sweep the house, you find everything.
The river may dry up but she keeps her name.
What fell off the cart is [as good as] gone.
He who wakes up and finds himself a success hasn't been asleep.
Underneath every bush you'll find a mud rabbit ready to bolt.
He who works has much; he who saves, still more.
Beat the rogue and he will be your friend.
The affectionate calf sucks [udders of] two cows.
He who has nothing will not eat. If you want flour, go gather chestnuts.
A lazy youth, a lousy age.
Idle hands are the devil's workshop.
"if it is not a boy it will be a girl,” says the fortune-teller.
There is nothing so crouse, as a new washen louse.
The devil can swallow a woman but he can't digest her.
Full of piss and vinegar.
Choose your fellow traveller before you start on your journey.
A single untried popular remedy often throws the scientific doctor into hysterics.
He who has a good neighbor has a good friend.
As you brew, so must you drink.
We never profit by the gifts of the wicked.
In nature, there is no such thing as a lawn.
Strike the iron while it is warm.
He who does not intend to pay is not troubled in making his bargain.
Benefits please like flowers, when they are fresh.
He who has been bitten by a snake is afraid of an eel.
With the help of an "if' you might put Paris into a bottle.
Little profit comes from constant drunkenness.
Where force rules, justice does not exist.
A secret imparted is no longer a secret.
Long fasting is no economy of food.
Falsehood is the Devil's daughter, and speaks her father's tongue.
Better is rule than rent.
He will never get into the wood who starts at every bush.
White elephant born in the forest.
You can take a horse to the pond but you cant make him drink.
The chicken that crows the loudest does not always give the biggest eggs.
A man's will can be his paradise, but it can also be his hell.
The jewel is in the lotus.
Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn.
He was thrown into deep water.
The spirits are the strength and counsel to the living.
Water aid does not remove completely the dirt.
At night one takes eels, it is worth waiting sometimes.
We will water the thorn for the sake of the rose.
An evening rainbow means good weather in the morning, a rainbow in the morning fills wells and fountains.
Even if you are cunning, you will not tie water up in a bale of grass.
God grant me to contend with those that understand me.
You should have done it on the wedding night, you fool.
He who enters the game must endure it.
He who demands does not command.
One who speaks fair words feeds you with an empty spoon.
The king lives way up where the stench of the poor cannot reach him.
When wine sinks, words swim.
One by one we count the beans.
If you are in Rome, live in the Roman way, if you are somewhere else, live like there. (attributed to Ambrose of Milan)
Clumsy birds have need of early flight.
The idleness of a low-life causes losses; his shying away from work is perpetual.
Those who remove mountains begin by carrying away small stones.
You never really know your friends from your enemies until the ice breaks.
Unfenced garden - fenced in desert.
Every animal knows more than you do.
Good actions are never lost.
There is pain in prohibition.
Kiss the hand that you cannot bite.
An old fox needs learn no craft.
If you buy things you don't need, you are stealing from yourself.
An empty sack cannot stand.
A dogs broken bone will soon be healed.
The heart has eyes that the brain knows nothing of.
A bad cause requires many words.
Blessed are the dead that the rain rains on.
Not until the tree is felled can you see how tall it was.
Like the wife wi' the mony dochters, the best's aye hindmost.
Don't try to run before you can walk.
Rejoice not ever at tidings of ill, but glad let thy soul be in good.
A man's intelligence is located in the tip of the pen.
He is a fool who cannot be angry but a wise man who will not.
He who builds a house in the market-place, builds either too high or too low.
In men every mortal sin is venial, in women every venial sin is mortal.
He who measures oil greases his hands.
A foreigner should be well-behaved.
He that plants thorns must never expect to gather roses.
Ye may drink of the burn, but not bite of the brae.
A rotten apple injures its companions.
Fighting for your country glorifies death.
Sharp acids corrode their own containers.
Women are like raindrops: some fall on palaces, others on ricefields.
We come into this world crying while all around us are smiling. May we so live that we go out of this world smiling while everybody around us is weeping.
It's better to have few pleasures than many troubles.
Use soft words and hard arguments.
Take what you need and leave our land the way you found it.
Cold broth hot again, that loved I never; Old love renew'd again, that loved I ever.
Every day is not a holiday.
A well which is drawn from is improved.
A wise enemy as a companion is better than a foolish friend.
A smile is worth a thousand words.
The heart of an evil person is never pure.
The glow-works light the nights, but more so the night that their mother prepares porridge.
A man is obliged to beat his own chest when he has no drum.
To spoil a child is to maim it a bit.
An old dog will learn no tricks.
No penny, no paternoster.
The fun is in the search, not the finding.
A good conscience is a soft pillow.
Better suffer a known evil than change for uncertain good.
A man's heart is indiscernible behind his chest.
When there's a clear horizon in winter, there'll be the devil to pay.
Fair words don't fill the pocket.
Knowledge is not necessarily wisdom.
If he has thrown the only spear he had at you, it means that he doesn't fear you.
Fate loves a rebel.
A dishonest woman can't be kept in and an honest woman won't.
The same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay.
Tell me, I'll forget. Show me, I may remember. But involve me, and I'll understand.
Live and let live. There's nothing so queer as folk.
Justice oft leans to the side where the purse pulls.
The buckets take to fighting with the well, and get their heads broken.
Even a blind squirrel finds a nut once in a while.
No deceit, no merchant.
Knowing hens lay even in nettles.
A woman's mosque is her home.
Time covers and discovers everything.
If there is someone to haul the fir-tree, there shall be no shortage of those willing to hold a branch to help.
The gentle calf sucks all the cows.
No fishing like fishing in the sea.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
Talk about things of tomorrow and the mice inside the ceiling laugh.
You cannot make a soft bed for everyone.
Gold is where you find it.
For a flea he burns the blanket.
The one whose foot you heal kicks you with it.
Spring succeeds to winter.
A good anvil does not fear the hammer.
He may eat it or not, he wont get anything else.
A man fails seven times and rises eight times.
But now I was a rich man, three things have left me bare; dice, wine, and women, these three have made me poor.
And may the friends gathered below it never fall out.
Tired folks are quarrelsome.
Old swine have hard snouts, old oxen hard horns.
Accomplishment of purpose is better than making a profit.
There's many a slip twixt cup and lip.
He that telleth his wife news is but lately married.
How did you rear so many children? By being fondest of the little ones.
A well-formed figure needs no cloak.
If you snooze, you loose.
Time is the soul of business.
Look for a thrifty woman -- even though it may cost you a pair of shoes.
A wise duck takes care of its bill.
The ungrateful son is a wart on his father's face; to leave it is a blemish, to cut it off is pain.
Any visitor to the country who drinks from the river bengo will never want to leave.
It is not only one person who bathes in the witch's water.
Ropes that are too long become snakes.
I give thee flight without wings.
The spoken word vanishes, the written word remains. [Vox audita perit, litteras scripta manet.].
Don't be so much in love that you can't tell when it's raining.
A man who cannot tolerate small misfortunes can never accomplish great things.
It does not pay to talk a lot.
A drowning man grabs at a straw.
When the moon is not full, the stars shine more brightly.
The reserve doesn't weight your pocket.
The rich is washed with money, the poor with sweat.
His horse's head is too big, it cannot get out of the stable.
Man is man's wolf.
A Quarter of an hour is worth more than a thousand gold coins.
Don't call me a little olive until you've picked me.
Wink at small faults unless you can cast the first stone.
The ass well knows in whose house he brays.
Difficult tasks call for strong men.
Receive a plum, return a peach.
Arrogance is a weed that grows mostly on a dunghill.
Wolves are often hidden under sheep's clothing.
One can stand still in a flowing stream, but not in a world of men.
Even a slow walker will arrive.
Better go about than fall into the ditch.
In the end a needle weighs heavy.
If you can envision it, You can accomplish it. If you can imagine it, You can reach the heavens.
The work shows the workman.
Go home and make a net if you desire to get fishes.
Who don't keep faith with God won't keep it with man.
Even though chickens don't wash, their eggs are still white.
Big fish spring out of the kettle.
We praise in order to be praised in return.
To bow the body is easy, to bow the will is hard.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
Better a donkey that carries me than a horse that throws me.
If you want to keep your credit you must use it as little as possible.
When the lords come out of the council-house, they are wiser than when they went in.
The young man plays the flute, the middle aged man plays the harpsichord, the old man plays the organ.
Mouth is in gear, brain is in neutral.
Education is the poor man's haven.
A mad bull is not to be tied up with a pack thread.
Seeing a man is seeing his character.
Honey on a tongue, ice in the heart.
Wait, is a hard word to the hungry.
You can never tell what's in a package by its cover.
Crows will not pick out crows eyes.
Chasten thy son while there is hope.
He that is fraid of a far--should never hear thunder.
The neighbor's hen is a goose to a neighbor.
Welcome is the best dish.
The man will surely fail, who dares delay, and lose to-morrow that has lost to-day.
A reed before the wind lives on, while mighty oaks do fall.
He who is wise endeavours to learn how to understand the truth not less than that.
When someone is going downhill everyone likes to give them a kick.
A good grievance is better than bad payment.
If there is any profit in partnership, two will share a woman.
Spur not a willing horse.
Cutting off a mule's ears doesn't make it a horse.
Happy is the man whose father went to the devil.
In the village that you don't know, the chickens have teeth.
One strong man does not catch another strong man.
If you sit with us, you will get like us; if you sit beside a cooking pot, you will get black.
A mother-in-law should be blind in one eye and deaf in one ear.
I've fried my sausage in better pans than these.
He who cackled is the guilty party.
A hundred tailors, a hundred millers, and a hundred weavers, are three hundred thieves.
He would cheat the heron of her egg, though her two eyes were fixed on him.
There are not so many who must feign madness to survive.
A smiling face is half the meal.
Apple blossoms are beautiful, but rice dumplings are better.
Cute lamb sucks two ewes.
Many good people can find room in a small space.
To find oneself in tight breeches.
With one child you may walk; with two you may ride; when you have three, at home you must bide.
Eternity has no grey hairs.
A good mother is worth a hundred teachers.
The horns cannot be too heavy for the cow that bears them.
Of bad debtors you make take spoilt herrings.
The tongue of a bad friend cuts more than a knife.
For an bystander nothing is precious.
Into the mouth of a wolf.
Good wind needs no bush.
Hide not the truth from your confessor, your doctor, or your lawyer.
Never use a dwarf to measure the depth of the water.
High trees give more shadow than fruit.
A looker on sees more of the game than a player.
The excess of mirth leads to tears.
The cost is high of the honey that must be licked from thorns.
Life is short, but there's a lot to be done.
Everything new is fine.
The winds of the heavens shift suddenly; so does human fate.
Falsehood never tires of going round about.
Working and painting are better from a distance.
He laughs at scars who never felt a wound.
Little bird, little nest.
Poverty is the sixth sense.
A summer's sun is worth the having.
Don't poison someone whom you can kill with sweets.
Money buys cherries.
Money is like a guest: it comes today, leaves tomorrow.
A great church and little devotion.
Choose your neighbors before you buy your house.
A father deserted by a wise son is like being caught in a shower without a felt.
In the ant's house, the dew is a flood.
If a man returns from a long journey and no one says welcome back to him he feels like one who has not arrived.
Not all the trees in the forest make good firewood.
Young people talk of what they are doing; old people of what they have done; and fools of what they have a mind to do.
A high price moderates desire.
Laws go as kings like.
Kind words and few are a woman's ornament.
The monkey looks into the mirror and sees a gazelle.
At my leisure, as lairds dee.
Speak highly of the lake, but stay on the bank.
There is no such thing as bad weather, only bad clothing.
Shake hands at the beginning and at the end.
Willows are weak, yet serve to bind bigger wood.
The mother-in-law must be entreated, and the pot must be let stand.
The she-bear thinks her cubs pretty.
If you want to hit your mother-in-law, be sure to split her head.
A cart-horse could never win the derby.
Nothing should be done in haste but gripping a flea.
A rose too often smelled loses its fragrance.
Every rooster crows in its own pen.
If there is a character, ugliness becomes beauty; if there is none, beauty becomes ugliness.
Something to everyone is good division.
His room's better than his company.
He that can be patient finds his foe at his feet.
He that peeks through a keyhole may see what will vex him.
A bird shows its worth with its song, an intellect by its speech.
Put by for a rainy day.
You cannot teach the old gorilla the road.
A wise husband and a patient wife equal a peaceful home and a happy life.
Don't enter a defecating competition against an elephant.
Foul water will quench fire.
The wise man's wealth lies in good deeds that follow ever after him.
Offend one monk, and the lappets of all cowls will flutter as far as Rome.
Cheerful company shortens the miles.
Late children are early orphans.
The heaviest thing in the world is an empty pocket.
Correct the map of the Republic of India mentioned on your website, it shows pok is part of Pakistan not of India.
The concealer is as bad as the thief.
Love overlooks defects; hatred magnifies them.
When you eat an egg do not insult the chicken.
Your head will never fill your father's bonnet.
Give me good advice but don't advise me not to do it.
Blood is inherited and virtue acquired.
Mad drunkenness discloses every secret.
A marketplace is not the pace for a husband and wife to argue. However long the night may last, there will be a morning. Daylight follows a dark night.
He that stays in the valley, shall never get over the hill.
Covetousness breaks the bag.
When you curse your stepmother, your mother will be the victim.
Him with a bushy field cannot harvest edibles from it.
Bird goes up, bird goes down.
Necessity teaches all things.
You always learn a lot more when you lose than when you win.
The sufferer goes through hell till the truth comes out.
Well-timed silence is the most commanding __expression.
Boldness in business is the first, second, and third thing.
A glass for the vodka, for the beer a mug, and for the table, cheerful company.
One swallow does not a summer make.
The proverb cannot be bettered.
When you play, you may break your head.
A satisfied person does not know what a hungry one feels.
Seek and you shall find.
What keeps out the cold keeps out the heat.
One spark is enough to burn a hundred worlds.
Do not look at a visitor's face but at his stomach.
The sky is heavy with rain, but does not come.
See a sheaf of corn in the morning and a young woman in the evening.
Don't spill blood until the raven has flown over.
You are teaching iron to swim.
Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave.
A hundred aunts is not the same as one mother.
He became in idol of salt.
He who has a clean account, what fear of calculation does he have?
In prosperity caution, in adversity patience.
A man is known by his friends.
Just scales and full measure injure no man.
No one was ever lost on a straight road.
When loves is willing, it finds a way.
Even the fool says a wise word sometimes.
It is easier to guard a bushel of fleas than a woman.
All cats are gray in the dark.
If the deceased is no good, one shouldn't waste good candles on him.
He ruins himself in promises, and clears himself by giving nothing.
Judges and physicians kill with impunity.
What though his hair be gray, his mind is no less vigorous than ever.
Happiness itself does not stay -- only moments of happiness do.
To remove the hairs from a horse's tail, one by one must be plucked out.
The ant gets wings that she may perish sooner.
Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit.
Pay no heed to glob flies.
The worth of a thing is best known by the want.
A fisherman never says his fish stink.
Pain of mind is worse than pain of body.
Better a near neighbour than a distant cousin.
Laugh, and lay down again.
A starving donkey does not count the blows.
He who restrains his anger overcomes his greatest enemy.
dig a well then close the well, but do not fire a worker.
He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows: he breathes but does not live.
He stares at the new gate as a calf.
In time of war the devil makes more room in hell.
Who wants to win a gander, you need to weigh Drake.
Youth is a folly; maturity, a struggle; old age a remorse.
It is the old cow's notion that she never was a calf.
One hour of justice is worth seventy hours of prayer.
Don't count your chickens before they've hatched.
A poor man is hungry after eating.
Habit gives readiness.
Make a friend when you don't need one.
A man should learn to sail in all winds.
Those who wade in unknown waters will be sure to be drowned.
Learn to walk before you run.
Worries go better with soup than without.
They who drink beer think beer.
Love without return is like a question without an answer.
What little Johnny has not learned, big John will not know.
No grass grows on a beaten road.
When the fox is hungry, he eats butterflies.
The same shoe does not fit every foot.
Success never needs an excuse.
What's past is forgotten.
A disease that fails to finish us off will continue being condemned forever.
Badly oiled wheels will squeak.
To cast pearls before swine.
Rain and the hoe make onions.
When I'm dead, everybody's dead – – and the pig too.
Each thief judges by his condition.
You don't need intelligence to have luck, but you do need luck to have intelligence.
A good beginning is a halfway a battle won.
A creaking door hangs longest.
The conversation of the wise concerns ideas; that of the intelligent is about ideas; the common folk talk about food.
If you chase two rabbits, you will not catch either one.
I'd rather be red than dead.
If you can't stand the heat get out of the kitchen.
Do not measure others by your own yardstick.
He who possesses many things is constantly on guard.
Treat the earth well: it was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children. We do not inherit the Earth from our Ancestors, we borrow it from our Children. We are more than the sum of our knowledge, we are the products of our imagination.
It is a base thing to tear a dead lion's beard off.
Cast no dirt into the well that gives you water.
A good friend is recognized in times of trouble.
The rich man who is stingy is the worst pauper.
Speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee.
Anger increases love.
Don't praise your wife before a year.
Take to your aunt what you've brought to me.
The absent are always in the wrong.
He that knows thee will never buy thee.
I'll believe the thunder when I see the lightning.
Lords and fools speak freely.
When blind leads the blind, both fall into the ditch.
The slimming of an elephant and the losses of a rich man are not noticeable.
Ease and honor are seldom bedfellows.
It is well to buy oil as well as salt.
Religion, credit, and the eye are not to be touched.
Less of your courtesy, and more of your purse.
Even the best hack stumbles once.
Birds of prey do not sing.
Nobody will cut a head off except the one who put it on.
Life is vanity.
The whetstone in a village does no blunt the knife.
It is not for my own sake, said the fox, "that I say there is a good goose-green in the wood."
From the lowly perspective of a dog's eyes, everyone looks short.
Of all weights, old age is the heaviest.
He that marries a widow with four children marries four thieves.
Water in a coconut shell is like an ocean to an ant.
Happiness requires something to do, something to love and something to hope for.
The day hes eyne, the night hes ears.
The good cow gets sold in its own country.
For every seed a corresponding fruit.
The eyes that beheld the chief don't fear for a court official.
Smoke, floods, and a troublesome wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life.
If you persevere, you'll have stew.
Use your enemy's hand to catch a snake.
Never take the antidote before the poison.
The company of the wicked is like living in a fish market; one becomes used to the foul odor.
The one who loses his faith will never be content.
An excess of courtesy is a discourtesy.
Don't try to cover the stone with a quilt.
A kind word warms for three winters.
Serve as a serf or fly like a deer.
Rippling water shows lack of depth.
I have no set principles; I make adaptability to all circumstances my principle.
Truth has a handsome countenance but torn garments.
No chicken will fall into the fire a second time.
Play with the fool at home, and he will play with you abroad.
God gave, God took back.
Happiness is not a horse, you cannot harness it.
It is not the hook or the rod, but the bait that lures.
We use to live and spill tears, now we live and build happiness.
In every little house there is a little louse.
There is never a great dunghill at a sportsman's door.
Every mother-in-law is a piece of the devil's pants.
Love is blind; jealousy sees too much.
Good connections should pay.
Fire, water, and government know nothing of mercy.
Who tells me of my faults is my teacher; who tells me of my virtues does me harm.
The water doesn't move.
It is too much to expect of a cat that she should sit by the milk and not lap it.
Commerce flourishes by circumstances precarious.
He never was a friend who ceased to be so for a slight cause.
Save us from our friends.
When the morning comes he is worn out
Who wants fire, let him look for it in the ashes.
Treat the days well and they will treat you well.
The wise create proverbs for fools to learn not to repeat.
When the will is prompt the legs are nimble.
The spoken word sometimes loses what silence has won.
A nail is driven out by another nail; habit is overcome by habit.
The mill gains by gong, and not by standing still.
A fair skin often covers a crooked mind.
A man is judged by his clothes.
Compromise makes a good umbrella but a poor roof.
Success has brought many to destruction.
Big is the fish in another's boat.
The coat of truth is often lined with lies.
Cows forget that they were calves.
The eagle does not war against frogs.
Silence is a wonderful jewel for a woman but she seldom wears it.
It's as if she's fallen off an elephant's trunk.
Rebuke should have a grain more of salt than of sugar.
However hot the sun, it will never dry the sea.
Greed takes birds from the sky and fish from the sea.
It needs but slight provocation to make the wolf devour the lamb.
A good meal is worth hanging for.
The calf isn't even born yet and there he is sharpening his carving knife.
Every man honest till de day him ketch.
What one desires is always better than what one has.
Business is business, and love is love.
The Olympic Spirit.
The wind keeps not always in one quarter.
Are you a dugong, you cannot bear a wound?.
Those who do not read are no better off than those who can not.
Who makes his bed on the morrow; goes all day without sorrow.
Millers, tailors, and weavers are not hanged, or the trade would soon be extinct.
It's all right to drink like a fish if you drink what a fish drinks.
No matter how stressed or angry we are, we have to solve a problem with rationale.
His whole life he carried his wife on his back.
Fair promises bind fools.
Love should be paid with love.
Better a mouse in the pot than no stew at all.
Jokes, which carry injury with them, are never agreeable.
The fox must be chased away first after that the hen might be warned against wandering into the bush.
Time is the master of him who has no master.
Watching is a part of good play.
Measure twice before you cut once.
To the person with little shame, the whole world is his.
Advising is easier than helping.
It takes two to make a quarrel but only one to end it.
Often, under the unseeing hide the cunning.
Books provide knowledge, life furnishes understanding.
He's no fool who parts with what he can't keep to get what he shall not lose.
Envy no man.
The devil climbs the bell tower in a priest's cassock.
Who stands by the door of his house is not yet gone away.
He who has no knowledge, understanding of something, should not engage in, or interfere with it.
The world is a barrel, for all to draw from.
Do not yell "dinner” until your knife is in the loaf.
Year of snow fruit will grow.
Be a custom good or bad, a peasant will have it continue in force.
Let it roll; it will right itself.
Call a cat a cat.
Experimenting is the great science.
What is marriage, mother? Daughter, it is spinning, bearing children, and weeping.
Don't rejoice over him that goes, before you see him that comes.
Those who are discontent to remain in one place will not earn much.
Playing with fire.
Don't promise what you cannot perform.
When your neighbour is wrong you point a finger, but when you are wrong you hide.
Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat.
As long as a cock lives, it is said to have belonged to the child of the house; but when it is slaughtered for super, it is then that the real owner emerges.
Handsome apples are sometimes sour.
Give a dog a bad name and hang it.
A good son makes a good husband.
You can proclaim the truth also in a friendly way.
Bad actions lead to worse reactions.
If you see your neighbor has lost his beard, you'd best start lathering yours.
Patience is a virtue that causes no shame.
Be frugal in prosperity, fear not in adversity.
Beef to the heels like a Mullingar heifer.
Necessity requires no decision.
The good that you scoff at and ignore, you'll recognize when you lose it.
Anything that is heavy can be light if we put our resources together.
One and none is all one.
Do not slaughter a calf before its mother's eyes.
youth and void and edginess ruin men.
That which is about to die doesn't hear the drum beating.
With a walking-stick you reach many lands; you reach many more with words.
A baby that does not cry will die on its mother's back.
Marriage is the only war in which you sleep with the enemy.
No war is more bitter than the war of friends, but it does not last long.
The first day you meet, you are friends. The next day you meet, you are brothers.
There is no silver here: three hundred taels.
Almost everyone is mad but some people can control there madness.
Be bad to the bad; good to the good; be a flower to other flowers and a thorn to other thorns.
Better never begun nor never endit.
Perhaps you will soon find another, and a fairer, lover.
When people are no longer afraid of death, there is no use threatening them with it.
A goaded ass must trot.
As Maguni the Carthaginian used to say: work to the vineyard, mind the store.
Time goes on while life runs out.
He who dances well goes from wedding to wedding.
To take ambition from a soldier, is to rob him of his spurs.
A system that works is worth golden.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
The glow soon becomes ashes.
Going into a country the first time, ask what is forbidden; on entering a village, ask what are the customs; on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned.
Length of time rots a stone.
You can find no pomegranates on a willow tree, nor shame in the wicked.
If you are in a hurry, go via the roundabout.
Men are very generous with what costs them nothing.
Lay up against a rainy day.
He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at his neighbour's.
In a united family, hapiness springs up of itself.
One who wants to keep their yard tidy does not reserve a plot for the weeds.
From a broken violin do not expect fine music.
Learn about the future by looking at the past.
You have to dig deep to bury your daddy.
When a girl is born all four walls weep.
Money matters make strangers.
Without fingers, the hand would be a spoon.
Store is no sore.
Grief is light that is capable of counsel.
Justice becomes injustice when it makes two wounds on a head which only deserves one.
He has not leisure even to scratch his ears.
Everything has its season.
Once the dog's dead, the rabies end.
When sorrow is asleep wake it not.
The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes didn't have tears.
The grapes are sour, said the fox, when he could not get at them.
The second blow makes the fray.
Crabs teach their offspring to walk straight.
Women and cloth should not be bought in the evening.
Priests return to the temple, merchants to the shop.
A raindrop does not spare the head of the notable.
Who pays in advance eats stinking fish.
Peppa bu'n hot, but ih good fi curry.
He who gives to the poor, lends to the Lord.
A dog that will bring a bone will take one away.
Follow the river and you will get to the sea.
Honour a good man that he may honour you, and a bad man.
Greed loses what it has gained..
The loudest bark rids not a dog of his fleas.
If your heart is a rose, then your mouth will speak perfumed words.
Drunkenness does not produce faults; it discovers them.
The doctor seldom takes physic.
A bird does not change its feathers because the weather is bad.
The tongue is boneless, but can break bones.
Clean hands offend no one.
What's at home, counts.
One scabby sheep is enough to spoil the whole flock.
Gone is gone; no Jew will lend upon it.
The tailor that makes not a knot loses a stitch.
He fell to-day, I may fall to-morrow.
Don't start economizing when you are down to your last dollar.
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.
So many mists in March, so many frosts in May.
It is no use waiting for your ship to come in unless you have sent one out.
Who can say with certainty that one will live to see the morrow?
He who believes in dreams feeds on wind.
A genius is he who is first to be right.
Breeding rather than birth.
Mud houses don't burn.
Suit yourself to the times.
The person who doesn't scatter the morning dew will not comb gray hairs.
The beginning and end of one's life is to draw closer to the fire.
Playing with fire will eventually turn bitter.
When you go to a donkey's house, don't talk about ears.
To skin a mouse.
The place to use the club and the above arrow are not the same.
What's too hard for a man must be worth looking into.
A thousand li journey begins with a single step.
No lamp burns till morning.
The strength of the elderly is in the ears and on the lips.
He has passed the road to Damascus.
Victory must be earned.
He who goes not into battle cannot wear a crown.
Better a lean agreement than a fat lawsuit.
If you would live long, open your heart.
The scabbier the sheep the harder it bleats.
Don't throw out your dirty water until you get in fresh.
Those who get the name of rising early may lie all day.
No need to teach an eagle to fly.
Injurious is the gift that takes away freedom.
Every pig has it Martinmas.
You are like dew even before it rains.
Don't cry fish before they're caught.
It was smooth on paper, but we've forgotten about ravines.
A stone that gathers no moss will be washed away by the river.
I came to the place of my birth and cried, I came to the place of my birth and cried, "The friends of my youth, where are they?" And echo answered, "Where are they?"
A woman and a glass are always in danger.
The way one eats is the way one works.
A dog won't bite you if you are carrying a stick.
A bird flies high above and its funeral is performed on the ground.
Love, grief, and money cannot be kept secret.
The dog never minds not to laugh.
Kindness, like a boomerang, always returns.
If someone isn't handsome by nature, it's useless for them to wash over and over again.
Stolen things bring in misfortune.
If you do not step on the dog's tail, he will not bite you.
Better to stumble once than be always tottering.
He who would have others pity him must pity others.
Where wine goes in, modesty goes out.
Mice always return to their own little holes.
The hen pecks and wipes its beak.
It is the grass that knows where the snake goes.
As the sun's shadow shifts, so there is no permanence on earth.
Water is cheaper than medicine.
If you live on the river, befriend the crocodile.
Let there be light.
Where love sets the table food tastes at its best.
Reason is only verbal.
A hook is weel tint to catch a salmon.
As long as there will remain two men on earth, jealousy will reign.
He who asks a question does not err easily.
If March is late in coming, June will suffer.
If the nail decided to malinger, it would not pierce butter.
Golden dreams make men wake hungry.
A lie can annihilate a thousand truths.
When a stone hits glass, the glass breaks. When glass hits a stone, the glass breaks.
It is better to suffer in name the truth than being rewarded for lying.
A hundred wagon loads of thoughts will not pay a single ounce of debt.
A golden key opens every door except that of heaven.
In anger there is no intelligence.
The starving man will never burn his bread.
Beauty draws with a single hair.
Old pigs have hard snouts.
Lilly billy-goat hab beard by big bull hab none.
He who cannot sleep can still dream.
History is constantly teaching, but it does not find many pupils.
Where the needle goes, the thread follows.
Sell me dear, and measure me fair.
This grief will prove a blessing.
A horse knows his rider by his spurs.
Roasted locusts eaten at night bring dangerous dreams.
A thread-bare coat is armour proof against highwaymen.
Welcome, evil, if thou comest alone.
A klingon does not postpone a matter of honor.
Even after a bad harvest there must be sowing.
Who would avoid all strife, should be a bachelor.
A glutton young, a beggar old.
If you want to be old, hang yourself when you are young.
He who digs a hole for someone, will fall in it himself.
A custom wears a shirt of iron.
Fear to let fall a drop, will always make you spill a lot.
When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes.
Should you ever call your husband 'appā,' however much you may like him?
Home is the father's kingdom, the children's paradise, the mother's world.
The noblest vengeance is to forgive.
Who is born a chicken loves scratching.
Man is like palm-wine: when young, sweet but without strength; in old age, strong but harsh.
Kind words conquer.
Our country, right or wrongǃ (Stephen Decatur)
Life is an onion and one cries while peeling it.
He's ta'en a start and an owerloup.
Debt severs love.
Admire the person with dirt under his fingernails.
Repentance never comes first.
Love is one-eyed, hate is blind.
Why wear out your great coat in summer?
Iron that works does not rust.
Aft times the cautioner pays the debt.
When one has not what one likes, one must like what one has.
Give a blind man eyes and he will ask for eyebrows.
A Stones will remain for ever while water passes.
Sympathy is a little medicine to soothe the ache in another's heart.
If you are hunting for a red deer then ignore the hares.
It's too late to close the stable door after the horse has escaped.
Trouble rides a fast horse.
The back door robbeth the house.
The summer that yields lots of pumpkins and horse radish doesn't fill the larder.
Drive a rat into a corner, and he'll jump at you.
There are more ways than one to kill a cat.
He that waits on another man's trencher, makes many a late dinner.
A single Russian hair outweighs half a Pole.
A farmer on his knees is higher than a gentleman on his legs.
Fortune is blind.
Those who have not crossed the river yet should not laugh at those who are drowning.
Mother, I must have a husband, or I shall set fire to the house.
Be brave where bravery is honorable.
He who does look before him, must take misfortune for his earnings.
Women are wise impromptu, fools on reflection.
For the last comer the bones.
Luxury begins the day a man starts wearing shoes.
The torah can be interpreted in 49 different ways.
Life may be short, but it can be wide as well.
If the Sultan demands five eggs, let his soldiers roast a thousand chickens.
One sees the sky through a hollow reed.
Lucke and bone voyage.
You must eat an elephant one bite at a time.
It is not enough for a man to know how to ride; he must know how to fall.
A Horse has four legs, but still stumbles.
The toad that wanted to avoid the rain fell in the water.
He that killeth a man when he is drunk must be hanged when he is sober.
All cannot have the Bishop for uncle.
The day your horse dies and your money's gone, your relatives change into strangers.
Much coin, much care.
A fool is a wise man's ladder.
If you wake up in the morning and feel no pain, it is to be feared that you died in the night.
Nothing can come out of a sack but what is in it.
The spider's web lets the rat escape and catches the fly.
All wish to live long, but none to be called old.
He, who gives you a rope, tie him with it.
The rich man gets his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter.
Better to beg forgiveness than to ask permission.
Michael is quits; he lost a ducat and gained a rabbit.
The old man looks death in the eye, the young man keeps him behind his back.
As the old cock crows so crows the young.
Old people know much; they were taught by necessity.
One should not think about it too much when marrying or taking pills.
A mistake is no fraud.
One minute of patience, ten years of peace.
Never buy bread from a butcher.
I looked into the water. My destiny was drifting past. I was born on an ill-fated day.
He is no small knave who knows a great one.
Monkey mus' know weh ‘im gwine put ‘im tail, before ‘im order trousiz.
A stitch in time saves two stitches.
While it is fine weather, mend your sail.
The tongue slow and the eyes quick.
Likely lies in the mire, and unlikely goes by it.
The foolish man lies awake all night
Although there's a new love, the old love can't be forgotten.
A warm january; a cold may.
Great fishes break the net.
Get what to lend out and at the same time how to demand it back, for payment might be a tussle.
He that would be old long must begin betimes.
Plenty brings pride.
When dirt comes to honour it know not what to be.
As a tree falls, so shall it lie.
We are as near to heaven by sea as by land! (Humphrey Gilbert)
A priest's beard is always soaked in butter.
No time like the present.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
Others will measure you with the same rod you use to measure them.
The ass knows in whose face he brays.
Different sores must have different salves.
Pray that you will never have to bear all that you are able to endure.
He who in under cover when it rains is a great fool if he stirs.
One may get up late if one has the name of getting up early.
The person who gives away his belongings will slowly become a beggar.
Account by the dinar, give charity by the ass load.
He who has one foot in a brothel, has the other in a hospital.
Meikle crack fills nae sack.
No one ever kicks a dead dog.
Never confuse wisdom with luck.
What does the blind man know of the beauty of the tulip?
A handstaff of holly, a buailtin of hazel,a single sheaf and a clean floor.
Everybody says it, nobody knows it.
An idle youth, a needy age.
Good sword has often been in poor scabbard.
Do not sweep someone else's home while yours is dirty.
The reward of silence is certain.
One family builds the wall, two families enjoy it.
An appetite is a true companion to plain bread.
He who wants fruit should not pick flowers.
Unused firewood mocks the burning wood.
It's like exchanging six for half a dozen.
All rivers do their best for the sea.
Train a child the way he should go and make sure you you also go the same way.
Truth has a scratched face.
You warm up something for ten days and it goes cold in one.
Even the wall has an ear.
The poor man's shilling is but a penny.
Obedience is much more seen in little things than in great.
A bad day never hath a good night.
Almost never killed a fly.
A woman's tears and a log's limping are not real.
Don't hide your light under a bushel.
It is hard to make a fire on a cold hearth.
The pot boils best on your own hearth.
If you forget your worries, the storm will blow over.
The cripple is fair in its mother's eyes.
The soul belongs to God, and possessions to their owners.
Can your hands do what your tongue does?
The food is half the provisions, the rest is herring and potatoes.
Do not protect yourself by a fence, but rather by your friends.
Time lost cannot be won again.
When you spit against the wind you get a dirty beard.
Buy your greyhound, don't rear him.
Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head.
Sweet is the memory of past labor.
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, if the Lord doesn't get you, the devil must.
True patience consists in bearing what is unbearable.
He ran away from the rain and was caught in a hailstorm.
The darkest place is under the candlestick.
A son will learn from his father to make a living, a daughter will learn from her mother to cut clothes.
Keep your own counsel.
Every story can be told in different ways.
His bark is waur than his bite.
When in March sun and water are taking turns with water and sun, the mules end up doing the carrying.
A friend at one's back is a safe bridge.
Patience is the virtue of the donkeys.
His footprints can be beaten with a stick.
I shall paint you in your own colours. [Take you according to your own showing.].
We know others by ourselves, sid the loafer about the lice.
Death is in front of the old person and at the back of the young person.
No mirror ever reflected an ugly woman.
The master orders the man, the man orders the cat, and the cat orders her tail.
The hunter does not rub himself in oil and lie by the fire to sleep.
He that will not strive in this world should not have come into it.
Ask advice only of your equals.
He who spares the rod hates his son.
A lucky person is someone who plants pebbles and harvests potatoes.
Standing with the mouth full of teeth.
What comes out of one mouth goes into a hundred others.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
Every man can rule an ill wife, but he that hes Her.
Nanny-goat neber cratch him back till him see wall.
When God cooks, you don't see smoke .
Do not insult the mother alligator until after you have crossed the river.
Where God cooks, there is no smoke.
With a king it is the same as with fire - stay neither close by, nor too far away.
A turtle makes progress when it sticks its neck out.
Grease a churl's boots and he'll say you are burning them.
We hang little thieves, and take off our hats to great ones.
In the villages where there are no oxen, the sheep's feet seem strong.
All water flows into the ocean or into the purse of the rich.
It's hard to please greeks and trojans at the same time.
A jealous woman will set a whole house on fire.
Drive fast and sing loud!
He's a hawk of a right nest.
If you don't know what to do, don't do anything.
With two bits worth of a donkey you can earn more than with a mule.
Ingratitude is the world's reward.
The man with no patience waits for daylight, and when it comes he'll be blind.
What the child sees, the child does. What the child does, the child is.
Don't run, you'll forget walking!
Large trees are envied by the wind.
Lies that build are better than truths that destroy.
Who wants yoghurt in winter must carry a cow in his pocket.
Between wrangling and disputing truth is lost.
It's difficult to take a wolf cub without bringing in the whole pack.
The longest mile is the last mile home.
Health is wealth.
Merchant to-day, beggar to-morrow.
Words die and men keep on living.
A loose tooth will not rest until it's pulled out.
Familiarity breeds contempt; distance breeds respect.
The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree to the ground said he would praise himself if no one else did.
What I believe in is all that is mine.
The purpose sanctifies the means.
An old lion will be mocked by the dogs.
Even the luck of a poor man is poor.
Old feel the blows suffered when young.
A child who has no mother will not have scars to show on his back.
Of no sort of good to himself, or to anybody else.
Live and learn.
Who has skirts of straw needs fear the fire.
You seek water from a stone.
Reward sweetens labour.
A good payer will not object to leaving a deposit.
Beat the dog; wait for its master.
He hath not a farthing left wherewith to buy a rope to hang himself.
Where God has sown it shall flourish.
It is good to strike the serpent's head with your enemy's hand.
I cured my self but I amputated my nose in the process.
The potter drinks water from a broken jug.
Red sky at night shepherds delight.
A friend is better than a brother of the same mother.
A wicked book cannot repent.
The goat eats the grass there where it is tied.
A man dances all the same, though he may dance against his will.
If the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox.
In proportion as anger comes, sense departs.
Thread off the world ? shirt for naked.
A handful of dust, four capitals and shit on all i possessed.
The old woman doesn't want fun, she wants bread, wine, and fire.
Don't cry till you are out of the wood.
When there are no great tigers in the deep mountains, even a monkey can become king.
He who laid a snare for me has fallen into it.
Women have no court.
Money makes the world go round.
If you are praised by a villain, mend your ways at once.
A person is what he eats.
Crooked by nature is never made straight by education.
What people get by hard work they don't get for their neighbours.
Don't try to walk before you can crawl.
Whoever does not respect you, insults you.
An ape's an ape, a varlet's a varlet, though they be clad in silk and scarlet.
To love someone who does not love you is like shaking a tree to make the dew drops fall.
People say that time goes by; time says that the people go by.
Everything in time comes to him who knows how to wait.
A hungry stomach has no ears.
God heals, but the doctor gets paid.
A young tree bends, an old tree breaks.
God gives every bird his worm, but he does not throw it into the nest.
An healthy mind for an healthy body.
Praise the sea, and keep on land.
Better is my neighbour's hen than mine.
Slower than a turtle.
Knock on wood.
Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth.
One can even get used to living hell.
Paper can't wrap up a fire.
Better have to give than have to beg.
Salt comes from north, gold from south and silver from the land of Whites, but the Word of God, the famous things, histories and fairy tales, we only find them in Timbuktu.
Revenge is new wrong.
If you have, give; if you need, seek.
Sin concealed needs two forgivings.
Who winks to the blind, does work in vain.
If a man looks upon your wife pluck out his eye and cook it in a goodly stew. If he eats the stew his manhood will wither and fall off in the next moon.
What the sober man has in his heart, the drunkard has on his lips.
You do not swap horses while crossing the ford.
If you leap into a well, providence is not bound to fetch you out.
Put faith in your own abilities and not in the stars.
Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional.
By slitting the ears and cutting the tail, a dog is still a dog, not a horse, not an ass.
Many love to praise right and do wrong.
They are happy, the free men that have their fathers.
A gentle politician doesn't promise to build bridges where there is no water.
At borrowing cousin german, at repaying son of a whore.
Haste does not result in prosperity.
Let the worst come to the worst.
A truth spoken before its time is dangerous.
A family tie is like a tree; it can bend but it cannot break.
There are three things which if one does not know, one cannot live long in the world: what is too much for one, what is too little for one, and what is just right for one.
Do not judge a man by the whiteness of his turbin, soap is bought on credit.
The thief is sorry he is to be hanged, not that he is a thief.
Disgraced like a man whose own pet bites him.
A large eye does not mean keen vision.
Genius can be recognized by its childish simplicity.
One kisses the child for the mother's sake, and the mother for the child's sake.
A man that has had his fill is no eater.
A lame crab walks straight.
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.
To do good to the ungrateful is to throw rose-water into the sea.
Before you make a friend, eat a bushel of salt with him.
Regular feet can't be affected by irregular shoes.
While horse is strong travel to see places.
Fisherman near fisherman. Hunter near hunter.
The mud of one country is the medicine of another.
I am talking to you, daughter-in-law, so that you could hear it, neighbor.
It is a hard task to comfort the proud.
Anyone who has sold an old lady, knows the price of an old man.
Who has no past, has no future.
A good soldier is a poor scout.
New brooms sweep the best.
Speak plain -- call bread bread, and wine wine.
Giving advice to a stupid man is like giving salt to a squirrel.
Do not pull everyone over a comb.
Once the game is over, the king and the pawn go back into the same box.
The rat that has but one hole is soon caught.
No strength within, no respect without.
An old fox doesn't go twice into the trap.
Dry August, chestnuts at every step.
When you come back from a long journey, offer your family something though it be only a stone.
Before preparing to improve the world, first look around your own home three times.
The stones of my river are as soft as a pillow.
You only appreciate your father the day you become a father yourself.
A cake and a bad custom ought to be broken.
You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd.
Do not divide the spoil till the victory is won.
We were silenced by our patience, he entered with his donkey.
Fun is like fine beer it is rarely enjoyable alone.
Jealous? Hate the game and not the player.
A child who fears beating, would never admit that he played with a missing knife.
Self-assurance is two-thirds of success.
He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
A starved town is soon forced to surrender.
Undeserved curses don't bite a lot.
I rejoice that kolomba's mother is dead.
He that never eats flesh thinks harigals a feast.
No man can call again yesterday.
It's good steering with wind and tide.
A regular fighter who discords peace is bound to be fought by his own anger.
Like a monkey who eats belacaan.
A good word now is worth ten on a headstone.
Rhubarb and patience can work wonders.
A man's praise in his own mouth stinks.
The more the merrier.
What my neighbour eats does my stomach no good.
Bees touch no fading flowers.
God cures, and the doctor gets the money.
Who cannot fight, wins nought by right.
The cobra will bite you whether you call it cobra or Mr. Cobra.
A beaten track is a safe one.
The crust is part of the loaf.
Wounded to death by the words of an evil woman.
A crooked top on a crooked kettle.
Not everything forbidden is sweet.
Caution is the downfall to ambition.
A penny spared is better than a florin gained.
The man who loves is easy of belief.
They put the nightingale into a golden cage, yet it still craved for its home.
Don't throw rocks if you live in a house of glass.
The congregation is poor, the priest rings the bell himself.
Don't break your shins on your neighbors' pots.
You can't prevent a bird from flying over your head, but you can prevent him from making a nest in your head.
A sleeping fox finds no meat.
Hypocrisy is the mother of peace.
One more good man on earth is better than an extra angel in heaven.
Even though it is black, the raven loves its young.
Satan's friendship reaches the prison door.
Fall six times, rise seven.
It is ill fishing if the hook is bare.
Children raised, doubled work.
When hitting the horn of a single cow, the horns of a thousand cows hurt.
Good news crawls on its belly; bad news has wings.
The laughter, the tears, and the song of a woman are equally deceptive.
Silence is the sign of approval.
Boldness is the fruit of hope.
The grumbling mother-in-law forgets that she once was a bride.
Curses are like chickens, they always come home.
There never was a looking-glass that told a woman she was ugly.
A dry year still produces a harvestable crop.
Only three things in life are certain birth, death and change.
A village without elderly is like a tree without roots.
If you damage the character of another, you damage your own.
A mirror does not reflect a broken heart.
Only a certain amount of flowers and jewels are beautiful.
Whoever dies is first affected in its ability to reproduce.
When water reaches up to the nose, the calf is a swimmer.
Entreaties to get him to sing, and entreaties to leave off.
When the fox preaches to the goose her neck is in danger.
The child you sired hasn't sired you.
There are many witty men whose brains can't fill their bellies.
Every one carries his own skin to the market.
Three things drive a man outdoors; smoke, a leaking roof and a scolding wife.
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
The higher they fly, the harder they fall.
A candle lights others and consumes itself.
Don't tell any more fairy tales when the child has gone to sleep.
Slander! slander! some of it always sticks.
For a stubborn ass a hard goad.
Whatever happens, all happens as it should.
Hunger transmutes beans into almonds.
A guard dog cannot watch two homes at once.
It is easy to catch a serpent with someone else's hand.
It is not necessary to fall into a well to know its depth.
It is the blood of the soldier that makes the general great.
As long as I was a daughter-in-law I never had a good mother-in-law, and as long as I was a mother-in-law I never had a good daughter-in-law.
Winds blow counter to what ships desire.
The man without money seems half sick.
More enduring than a donkey.
If the dog barks, go in; if the bitch barks you had better stay outside.
A man without a child is a king without sorrows.
A good religion does not need miracles.
Too much water drowned the miller.
Intoxication is not the wine's fault but man's.
Lucky charms protect you only if you have your own luck.
'tis his turn to-day, it will be mine to-morrow.
Lush with moss.
Do not treat your loved one like a swinging door: you are fond of it but you push it back and forth.
He bawls like a calf because he is as weak as a kitten.
The chicken sings what the cock teaches him.
Habit is the sixth sense that dominates the other five.
A guest sticks a nail in the wall even if he stays but one night.
By all means make friends with the dog, but do not lay aside the stick.
A busy women has a lazy daughter, a lazy women has a busy daughter.
You never meet your mother-in-law on the day that you are welldressed.
Nobody hates himself more than he who hates others.
It is only the tree loaded with fruit that the people throw stones.
The house completed, possession defeated.
Whatever will satisfy hunger is good food.
Who drinks till bottom, lives without mind.
The poor can only guess at what wealth is; the rich don't know what poverty means.
A modest dog seldom grows fat.
If you see wrongdoing or evil and say nothing against it, you become its victim.
When violence comes into the house, law and justice leave through the chimney.
Man is harder than rock and more fragile than an egg.
Use it up, wear it out, make it do, or do without.
A herdsman must yell to enter the fence.
Words do not fill your purse.
You can cage a bird but you can't make it sing.
A powerful man has big ears.
One must step back to make the better leap.
A child and a fool imagine twenty shillings and twenty years can never be spent.
Evil people know one another.
He catches the wind with a net.
As one sows, so shall he reap.
Away with thee, sickness, to where they make a good pillow for thee.
Do not judge a person until the lid of his coffin is closed.
While the butchers were arguing, the cow dropped dead.
Better a living dog than a dead lion.
He that seeks trouble, never misses.
If you've nothing to do, dig a spinster's grave.
It is more disgraceful to suspect our friends than to be deceived by them.
A hungry ass eats any straw.
Anyone who is satisfied to stand still should not complain when others pass him.
A crow will not peck out a crow's eyes.
The rich become deaf and the mighty blind.
Bargain like a gypsy, but pay like a gentleman.
A good tale is none the worse for being twice told.
Those that dislike cats will be carried to the cemetery in the rain.
Follow Love and it will flee, flee love and it will follow thee.
Fate leads those who are willing but must push those who are not.
A dog cannot carry its puppies on its back.
Let the world shout, who can shut the world's mouth.
Talk does mek talk.
It is the soil that knows that the mouse's baby is ill.
He that exceeds his commission must answer for it at his own cost.
Speak whenever you must, hush whenever you can.
A man that breaks his word, bids others be false to him.
The sweat of one's brow is what burns everyone.
The grave is our mother.
Neither break a law nor make one.
Do a good thing and throw it in the river. God will reward you in the desert.
A teacher will appear when the student is ready.
He who is always drinking and stuffing will in time become a ragamuffin.
An empty can makes a lot of noise.
Often the best way of giving oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has.
You can never be happy at the expense of the happiness of others.
I want more for my teeth than for my relations.
A bad dancer blames the hem of her skirt.
When you find your saint light your candle.
Nothing is certain but death and taxes.
Slow help is no help.
Wealth can come through your creator's good-will.
He that chastens one chastens twenty.
Fortune has a fickle heart and a short memory.
Love makes labor light.
Silence is the greatest ornament in a woman.
When a dead tree falls, the woodpeckers profit from his death.
Evil enters like a needle and spreads like an oak tree.
As mills require two stones, so friendship requires two heads.
Sweet are the tears that are dried by your loved one.
A ripe pear is more likely to fall in the shit than onto the clean ground.
The buzzing of the flies does not turn them into bees.
Prepare the fallow field well enough and you'll be free to go off and gather the hemp ties.
You may crush, bleed, stamp on and scratch me, but I won't play with fire.
Always drink up stream from the herd.
The happiness in your pocket, don't spend it all.
Slow water washes away the bank.
In the great river there are large and small fish.
Only the man who crosses the river at night knows the value of the light of day.
It destroys the craft not to learn it.
A hunter with only one arrow does not shoot carelessly.
Solid learning makes a man fit company for himself.
You cannot squeeze blood out of a stone.
Fire, fire's better than rice.
A cart horse doesn't last long.
Don't set the attic on fire just because you didn't catch any mice.
For lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone. The flowers appear on the earth, the time of pruning the vines has come, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.
You don't go into a tavern to say your prayers.
The mice have taken themselves off.
It is madness for a sheep to talk of peace with a wolf.
Do not boast about your wealth if you are a father.
Learning is a golden urn that can never be stolen.
The only way to keep a secret is to say nothing.
A farmer should not ride the king's horse.
Let your love be like the misty rain, coming softly, but flooding the river.
Let every sheep hand by its own leg.
Broad thongs may be cut from other men's leather.
His heart fell down to his heels.
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is spilt.
A man without money is like a ship without sails.
The lone wolf may yet kill as many deer as a pack.
In war it is best to tie your horse to a strange manger.
The mountain makes the horse suffer, anger makes oneself suffer.
A little idleness lost a tilled field.
Books are preserved parts of minds.
When the head is sick the whole body is sick.
An old banana leaf was once young and green.
Like question, like answer.
Whoever can walk on water is probably made of straw.
Dress up a stick and it does not appear to be a stick.
A man is as old as he feels, a woman as old as she looks.
A bird that allows itself to be caught will find a way of escaping.
A friend that you buy with presents, will be bought from you.
Earth has no sorrow that heaven cannot heal.
When there are two in a lawsuit only a third will profit from it.
Example is better than precept.
Keep no more cats than catch mice.
A farmer does not conclude by the mere look of it that a corn is unripe; he tears it open for examination.
Women are just like cats -- they always land on their feet.
Turn the cake in the pan.
He made a pit and digged it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made.
If you hold high office, the whole village will share your fame.
He who destroys houses destroys silver. He who destroys a house destroys gold.
The proof of the pudding is eating it.
Who moves, picks up, who stands still, dries up.
Better no law than a law not enforced.
Debt is worse than poverty.
At the narrow passage there is no brother and no friend.
One day as a tiger is worth a thousand as a sheep.
it is nothing - they are only thrashing my husband.
Man's law changes with his understanding of man. Only the laws of the spirit remain always the same.
It is more necessary to guard the mouth than the chest.
When you have an ass for a friend, expect nothing but kicks.
The bird is up in the sky but its eyes are on the ground.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Even the mother cannot understand the words of a dumb child.
The sweet flying ants will never be birds.
We carry our neighbours' failings in sight; we throw our own crimes over our shoulders.
The fox said the grapes were sour.
A wise lawyer never goes to law himself.
Wine brings forth the truth.
Don't underestimate the determination of a quiet person.
There's no sore ass like your own sore ass.
At her wedding, the bride eats the least.
The beggar that begs near another beggar will never be rich.
Dicing, drabbing and drinking bring men to destruction.
Fire is a good servant but a bad master.
"Sour,” said the fox about the rowanberries.
If you desire many things, many things will be seem but a few.
A galled horse does not care to be curried.
A man with a sour face should not open a shop.
The old one who is loved is like a winter flower.
You can't shake hands with a clenched fist.
Everyone is eloquent in his own cause.
Let the sleeping dog lie.
An empty belly hears nobody.
All are brave when the enemy flies.
Wives maun be had whether gude or bad.
God does not give horns to a cow that likes to gore.
Water from far away is no good for a fire close by.
A thorn of experience is worth a wilderness of advice.
Not to disturb that which is at rest.
The drum sounds when the hawk appears wit ha rabbit.
If you keep your head and heart going in the right direction you don't have to worry about your feet.
Clouds over the moon, a storm over blossoms.
A fair face will get its praise, though the owner keep silent.
A malignant sore throat is a danger; a malignant throat not sore is worse.
There's little to choose between two blind goats.
He who has not obeyed, cannot command.
He who falls today. may rise tomorrow.
the remedy of fire is fire.
In Töysä they speak only three words a week.
If you throw nettles into your neighbors garden you will find them growing in your own.
Scratch an old woman's back and she will let you taste her pepper pot.
The dead and the absent have no friends.
Cheat me with the price, but not with the goods I buy.
Let him who will not have advice have conflict.
The tongue of a woman is the sword that is never allowed to rust.
He who saves shall have as much as three.
When anger comes, wisdom goes.
Don't buy a pig in a poke.
If you are afraid of something, you give it power over you.
A proposal without patience breaks its own heart.
Sike Priest, sike Offering.
The teeth sometimes bite the tongue.
Wars are caused by women and priests.
Necessity can break iron.
Don't pour away your water due to a mirage.
The frog will jump back into the pool, although it sits on a golden stool.
He who sins when drunk will have to atone for it when sober.
What is an exalted position to a low fellow but a golden ring in a swine's snout?
If you want to stay at home, don't go out.
In love beggar and king are equal.
Bump-thump-scratch. It's all on a big man's skin.
If you are married to a chicken obey the chicken. If you are married to a dog obey the dog.
Money is not gained by losing time.
A room without books is a body without soul.
When the blind man carries the banner, woe to those who follow.
Better go around than fall into the ditch.
What a story these old walls could tell.
Collect promptly, pay slowly; who knows, in case of an accident, you'll pay nothing.
Ignorance is a form of environmental pollution.
The child of a rat is a rat.
Courage is often caused by fear.
What reveals a man is his behavior in time of hunger.
If you are planning to travel where corn grows, you should take a sickle with you.
Do not wade where you can see no bottom.
Pay your debts or lose your friends.
There is no better surgeon than one with many scars.
Much science, much sorrow.
Too much breaks the bag.
Who eats bread with barley porridge will be sent to siberia.
Never eat at the table of a Priest.
Cattle die and kinsmen die, thyself too soon must die, but one thing never, I ween, will die, the doom on each one dead.
Better a laying Hen nor a lyin Crown.
Whoever marries for money will have unworthy children.
Women's counsel is cold.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Give me, Lord, my daily bread, I will get my own brandy.
Old chains gall less than new.
Don't meddle with a family feud.
A clean hand moves freely through the land.
The wise understand by themselves, fools follow the reports of others.
Every age has its book.
A stranger has big eyes but sees nothing.
When a father gives to his son, both laugh; when a son gives to his father, both cry.
When misfortune comes in at the door, love flies out of the window.
He that beats the drum for the mad man to dance is no better than the mad man himself.
A hundred men can make an encampment, but it requires a woman to make a home.
In a perch is no broth, in a foolish person is no wisdom.
Admitting error clears the score and proves you wiser than before.
He that labours is tempted by one devil; he that is idle is tempted by a thousand.
He who wins the first hand, leaves with only his pants in hand.
It is a pain both to pay and pray.
Diamond cut diamond.
The road doesn't tell the traveler what lies ahead.
A woman's answer is never to seek.
He who spits in the air will have it fall back on his face.
Whom fortune wishes to destroy, she first makes mad.
I don't sow ground nuts when the monkey is watching.
Abundance begets indifference.
Don't ignore the small things - the kite flies because of its tail.
Too keen an edge does not cut, too fine a point does not pierce.
Proverbs bear age, and he who would do well may view himself in them as in a looking glass.
Who knows most believes least.
It is from a small seed that the giant Iroko tree has its beginning.
Like a red rag to a bull.
Water washes up everything but shame.
There is a great uproar made about the debt of a poor man.
A small gift, but well-timed.
Though the snake be small, it is still wise to hit it with a big stick.
Tripe broth, you make much of yourself.
Fools may sometimes speak to the purpose.
A kitchen dog never was good for the chase.
It is sheer folly to expect justice from the unprincipled.
An egg is dear on Easter day.
Don't confide secrets to your wife, don't rent if your house, don't have cops as a Godfathers.
Making a long nose.
Ill begun, ill done.
Ambition makes people diligent.
Roll me, don't curse me, said the stone to the ploughman.
When the cow has been sold with firmness you may relax for a while and go for a better one.
At the first cup man drinks wine, at the second wine drinks wine, at the third wine drinks man.
He is like water shaking in a wash tub.
A single bracelet does not jingle.
A closed mouth catch's no flies.
Time has strong teeth.
Fish and visitors smell after three days.
He who enjoys good health is rich, though he knows it not.
The owl is the wisest of all birds because the more it sees, the less it talks.
Different times different manners.
Better an ache than a tear.
If one comes to a fork of the road in a strange country, she stops to think.
Never fall out with your bread and butter.
A woman's polite devotion is her greatest beauty.
Give him your finger and he will seize your hand.
Large desire is endless poverty.
Don't offer me advice; give me money.
Tumbleweed will not enter into the mouth of the lying camel.
Priests dressed in black bring bad tidings, in white they take you to the cemetery.
Don't blame God for creating the tiger -- instead, thank him for not giving it wings.
The whole arena tells them to kill the bull, yet the bull should kill no one.
Many a good cow has a bad calf.
A patient dually determined can fill a pot with water using a fingernail.
He whom the shoe fits should put it on.
I saw a man, who saw another man, who saw the sea.
Even a healer's lies are a big relief to a sick person.
Better a living donkey than a dead doctor.
An artist lives everywhere.
Nothing venture, nothing gain.
Even the dog gets bread by wagging his tail.
Courtesy is appropriate for gentlemen and necessary for thieves.
A shock dog is starved and nobody believes it.
To forget one's ancestors is to be a brook without a source, a tree without a root.
Sense comes with age.
He's a little wet behind the ears.
It early pricks that will be a thorn.
Wherever you go, you can't get rid of yourself.
Thinking is very far from knowing.
While you still have light, grind the flour.
He who doesn't feel jealousy is not in love.
Your body belongs to the Tsar, your soul to God, and your back to the squire.
The absent saint gets no candle.
When crab walk too much him lose him claw.
An exception to every rule.
God is good, but never dance with a lion.
Demand a kiss from a fat woman, and be ready to receive a sweet taste.
Give ear to that man who has four ears.
Different fields, different grasshoppers; different seas, different fish.
If he works for you, you work for him.
Whoever digs a pit for his neighbor should dig it his own size.
Of hasty counsel take good heed, for haste is very rarely speed.
Active hands, full bellies.
He that by the plough would thrive, Himself must either hold or drive.
Where man is not, nature is barren.
When the cat and the mouse agree the farmer doesn't stand a chance.
In peace be faithful; in war be valiant.
Pride is said to be the last vice the good man gets clear of.
If you would be a good judge, pay attention to what everyone says.
An absent person has his excuse.
The man with the boots does not mind where he places his foot.
An opportunity is found with difficulty and easily lost.
Among the ignorant a little knowledge is of great value.
Death does not sound a trumpet.
The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey seems.
A man accused of stealing a goat should not entertain his visitors with goats meat.
Who knows not the game, let him not play.
After meat comes mustard.
In every pardon there is love.
Labor has sure reward.
Maturity consists of no longer being taken in by oneself.
It is a bad hen that lays her eggs away from the farm.
You must have slept with jean to know how he snores.
The cobbler should not go beyond his last.
We are content to forgo joy when pain is also lost.
No one is so poor as an ignorant person.
Life will show you what you did not know.
Speak well of the highlands, but dwell in the laigh.
The fish always stinks from the head downwards.
One hand can't applaud.
More credit is given to the eyes than to the ears.
How can the eater of dates forbid the eating of dates?
The cow gives a good pail of milk and then kicks it over.
I curse my son and I hate who says amen.
Out of sight, out of mind.
He who doth his own business defileth not his fingers.
The brave one lives as long as the cowards lets him.
One does not regret giving one's own ear-ring to one's dear friend.
The fat sow knows not what the hungry sow suffers.
Get a Christian doctor and a pagan lawyer.
He who climbs a ladder comes down again.
All work and no play make Jack a dull boy.
There's more to dancing than a pair of dancing shoes.
For a lot of people their conscience lives in the middle of the street.
Fidelity is a noble virtue, yet justice is nobler still.
No attention is paid to him who is always complaining.
Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed.
He who wakes up early in the morning receives a bundle of blessings.
Tideh fi mi, tomorrow fi yu.
By seeing one spot you know the entire leopard.
Lies melt the snow.
Only the foolish visit the land of the cannibals.
He that looks not e're he loup, will fall e're he wit of himself.
Wine that isn't paid for is drunk twice.
The wolf, dog does not eat the winter.
There is a good reason why natural water never runs at night.
He who knows little knows enough if he knows how to hold his tongue.
Between saying and doing, many a pair of shoes is worn out.
He that has the luck leads the bride to church.
A small tumbledown house is better than a communal palace.
In prosperity look out for squalls.
The king's chaff is better than other folk's corn.
I complained because I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
A woman hath nine lives like a cat.
The best mirror is a friend's eye.
Do not hope to reach a destination without leaving the shore.
If youth knew what age would crave, it would both get and save.
A thief makes opportunity.
When a man is wealthy, he may wear an old cloth.
A judge who despises justice, cursing with the right hand, and the chasing away of a younger son from the house of his father are abominations to Ninurta.
Love work, loath mastery over others, and avoid intimacy with the government. -Shmaayah.
If mind is clean, fate is good.
A precipice is in front, a wolf behind.
Live today for tomorrow it will all be history.
Work is the source of all good.
Truth does not need many words.
Heaven preserve me from my friends.
Every one goes with his own sack to the mill.
Happy is the woman whose husband does not speak to her.
The gods only hear one wish at a time, and nothing more.
Great men's servants don't think little of themselves.
The bait hides the hook.
The head of the rooster that crows out of time will be cut off.
He laughs at scar who has received no wound.
You stick in the same mire.
Milk belongs to the cow, but the bull cow gets the publicity.
There are two kinds of men: those who could be happy and are not, and those who search for happiness and find it not.
A true gentleman would rather have his clothes torn than mended.
Sweet rice is eaten quickly.
A young man should not marry yet, an old man not at all.
Every bee's honey is sweet.
The living are denied a table; the dead get a whole coffin.
The poor eat meat when they bite their tongues.
A young foal and an old horse draw not well together.
'tis the last straw that breaks the camel's back.
To know means to record in one's memory but to understand means to blend with the thing and to assimilate it oneself.
When buying a house, check the beams; when choosing a wife; check the mother.
No horse is so good, but that he will at times stumble.
When your horse in on the brink of a precipice, it is too late to pull the reins.
I am less concerned about them than about the croaking frogs in the marsh.
To heaven for the music but to hell for a good conversation.
A little stone overturns a great cart.
Swimming right after eating will cause cramps and you'll drown.
The ship that will not obey the helm will have to obey the rocks.
The solution is under our nose, yet we're searching far and wide for it.
Almost and very nigh saves many a lie.
Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been lent to you.
From great rivers come great fish.
Every man is the guardian of his own honor.
Do not stay too long when the husband is not home.
Men are equal when they are going and walking.
When Christ was along, the devil tempted him.
A brave dies but once - a coward many times.
Too many cooks, cooking at the same time makes the day take long to break.
Hens like to lay where they see an egg.
When old horses get warm, they are not easily held in.
Cabbage is best after it is reheated seven times.
What whiskey will not cure, there is no cure for.
Trouble never comes alone.
Unless the thunder strikes, a man won't cross himself.
Depend on others and you'll go hungry.
Give me, mother, luck at my birth, then throw me if you will on the rubbish heap.
It is better in times of need to have a friend rather than money.
Every frog has his own pond.
If you don't want to do something, one excuse is as good as another.
Either chest in crosses, or a head in bushes.
Cheat me in the price and not in the goods.
The man who loves to argue is left without friends.
Beauty without honesty is like a rose without perfume.
A whistling woman and a crowing hen are neither fit for God nor men.
If you don't know where your going to then any road will take you where you're going.
When you lift your hand to strike, you are three-tenths lower than your opponent.
Your best mirror is someone more beautiful than you.
When the figs are ripe all the birds want to eat.
Small children give you headache; big children heartache.
A mirk mirrour is a mans mind.
The Germans carry their wit in their fingers.
The more riches a fool hath, the greater fool he is.
In Thy skies, mountains,
Seat yourself in your place, and they will not make you rise.
Water does not stick to the mountain, and vengeance does not stick to a big heart.
The night walks the same road as the dream.
A lie runs until truth catches up to it.
To change and to change for the better are two different things.
You never miss the water till the well runs dry.
Where there is no fire, no smoke rises.
When it blows, the trees shake.
In the presence of elderly people one must not pour water.
There are many echoes in the world, but few voices.
There is no cure that does not have its price.
Don't let your past dictate your future.
The unrighteous penny consumes the righteous dollar.
The hunter's son knows how to hunt.
Friendship is a prodigal, but love is a miser.
Who falls short in the head must be long in the heels.
Where there is a will there is a way. Where there is no will there is an excuse.
The chamois climbs high and yet is caught.
A man's eyes are for seeing, a woman's for being seen.
Mony a ane's gear has hastened his hinder end.
Excessive talk is sure to include errors.
Only the victim feels really the pain.
A person eating must make crumbs.
The mother-in-law does not remember that she was once a daughter-in-law.
Apprehension of evil is worse than the evil itself.
The miller's hen and widower's maid, of want need never be afraid.
May you have a bright future – as the chimney sweep said to his son.
Hell is also made for people.
Oh hasty one, God will delay you.
Garlic by the savour, bread by the colour.
It is easier to watch over one hundred fleas than one young girl.
A man is called a drunkard when he misbehaves, not when he drinks.
He that does not save pennies, will never have pounds.
Cobbler, stick to thy last.
A cock says it's because of the situation it is faced with that it has its knees in the opposite direction.
There's mair ways o' killing a dog than hanging him.
Every day of your life is a page of your history.
Do not fear a stain that disappears with water.
All threateners don't fight.
Work today, for you know not how much you may be hindered tomorrow.
Mills and wives are ever wanting.
A lion at home, and a fox abroad.
One in the woodpile does not laugh at one in the fire.
Better a friendly denial than an unwilling compliance.
Stolen bread stirs the appetite.
Spread the word of a psalm and it becomes a popular song.
You attack a horned animal.
If Moscow is the heart of Russia and St. Petersburg is its head, then Kiev is its mother.
Repentance is the heart's medicine.
A child is like an axe; even if it hurts, you still carry them on your shoulders.
A good bird begins chirping while in the egg.
Children married, cares increased.
What you don't know can't hurt you.
Who does not know the path should ask.
When you go among one-eyed people, put out your own eye.
Princes have long hands and many ears.
If the heart is sad, tears will flow.
It is pleasant enough going afoot when you lead your horse by the bridle.
The safest antidote against sorrow is employment.
A man yearns for his paradise but it could become his hell.
In good times friends know you and in bad times you know them.
Not all that is black is charcoal.
Hear, see, be silent, if you wish to live (in peace).
The tree remains, but not so the hand that put it.
When the next house is on fire, 'tis high time to look to your own.
When the candles are out, all women are fair.
The remedy for injuries is to forget them.
Foul water as soon as fair will quench hot fire.
God does not smite with both hands.
Distance lends enchantment.
When a father helps a son, both smile; but when a son must help his father, both cry.
It's a sin to steal a pin.
Man is his own devil.
When ye're gawn and coming the gate's no toom.
The god of the river ordeal will admire the hearts of those who bear words of truth.
No risk, no gain.
Taught in the same school.
Such is the fate of the sheep: either shorn or roasted.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
The cure for bad times is patience.
Christianity came through Turku to Finland, and through Turku / goes from Finland away also.
If God closes one door, he opens a thousand others.
Use power to curb power.
A woman who is not successful in her own marriage has no advice to give to her younger generations.
April: shuffle the pigsty.
[You] cannot hide an awl in a sack.
The world is nonsense: what looks beautiful in the morning looks ugly in the evening.
When shepherds quarrel, the wolf has a winning game.
Hope is the last to die.
The devil is not as scary as they paint him.
He is wise that has wit enough for his own affairs.
The leopard cannot change its spots.
A priest is a man who is called Father by everyone except his own children who are obliged to call him Uncle.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
If you chase two hares at the same time, you will catch neither of them.
Pee on the ruins before they build a temple over them.
An idiot will cross an ox with an elephant.
While the grass is growing the mare dies.
The quarrel of lovers is the renewal of love.
Two smells of cooking meat break the hyena's legs.
I am a prince and you are a prince; who will lead the donkeys?.
The s*x of a cralmac is of interest only to another cralmac.
Pleasure often comes from pain.
Knowledge has bitter roots but sweet fruits.
On the day of victory no fatigue is felt.
A mans worst enemies are often those of his own house.
A kiss without a hug is like a flower without the fragrance.
The matchmaker always asks for too much money for his eight hundred lies.
It is never later than midnight.
Believe half what's recounted, the less you believe, the better you'll do.
Little by little, the bird builds her nest.
Handsome women generally fall to the lot of ugly men.
Old age is ripeness.
One step at a time is good walking.
Nothing but a handful of dust will fill the eyes of man.
The place of your birth is less important than how you live.
A lawyer and a cart-wheel must be greased.
Dog has to have its stomach full.
Nobleness is not noble ancestry.
One for sorrow; two for mirth; three for a wedding; four for a birth.
When the mouse is full, the flour tastes bitter.
To leap into a pool embracing a stone.
Control your emotion or it will control you.
Nobody goes to another monastery with one's own charter.
The place of an uninvited guest is behind the door.
The Mosquito weighs 99 kilos on his own scale.
If everyone were a gentleman, who would make the mills work?
The soldiers' blood, the general's reputation.
Fear the man who fears you.
Every house has its cross.
Doing that which has been done to us is not a sin.
When the snake is old, the frog will tease him.
God fits the back for the burden.
He who feels it, knows it.
No one likes to bell the cat.
When the bee sucks, it makes honey, when the spider, poison.
Whether the pitcher strike the stone, or the stone the pitcher, woe be to the pitcher.
Travelers from afar can lie with impunity.
Every kind of wood is grey when they are reduced to ashes.
Turn it inside and out.
The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their – honey.
A sword's honour is its idleness.
A brother may not be a friend . . . .
An ill shearer nexer gat a good hook.
He who owes nothing fears not the sheriff's officer.
For God and our country.
Patience surpasses learning.
Waste not want not.
Marriage is a snake to slip into your handbag.
Help thy brother's boat across, and lo! thine own has reached the shore.
A diviner cannot accurately divine his own future.
It is a strange desire to seek power and to lose liberty. (Francis Bacon)
No matter how well tamed a lion, it will one day go back to the bush.
For rich and poor alike the womb is equally warm.
Clean your own yard first before asking others to clean theirs.
The dog was asked: Why do you bark? - To scare the wolves. - Why do you wag your tail? -What do you think, am I not afraid of wolves?
Abbot of Carcuela, you eat up the pot and ask for the pipkin.
The happiest place in the world to live is within one's income.
Who carries on his back is thrown from the saddle.
Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.
Don't put too tight a ring on your finger.
After dinner stand a while, or walk nearly half a mile.
If two proverbs are not similar, one is not used to explain the other.
In the hour of adversity be not without hope For crystal rain falls from black clouds.
There is a deep sea between saying and doing.
The same teeth that a dog uses to play it uses to bite too.
A fence lasts three years, a dog lasts three fences, a horse three dogs, and a man three horses.
He kills the peacock for the beauty of its feathers.
You can take the boy out of the country but you can't take the country out of the boy.
Lend to your friend, and ask payment of your enemy.
With money, a dragon -- without it, a worm.
A puppy must not confront a large animal.
Cut of the sick part while it is still small.
Whoever is shy, will die (suffer) from hunger.
Whoever wants to hurt never misses his target.
Bone in chicken, relatives in man.
Not to know is bad; not to wish to know is worse.
Let what is past flow away downstream.
If you look back, you'll soon be going that way.
Castles were built a stone at a time.
Nobody gets out of the bed to sleep on the floor.
The kind man feeds his cat before sitting down to dinner.
It is better to travel hopefully than to arrive.
A man canna wive and thrive in the same year.
Say something nice or say nothing at all.
Sleep is the poor man's treasure.
First harvest honey and wax during the day, then dance and play in the open during the evening.
Advise no one to go to war or to marry.
A clear conscience is a soft mat (or pillow)
Though a tree grows ever so high, the falling leaves return to its roots.
Riches and favour go before wisdom and art.
Masters who sacrifice for servants will receive the gift of loyalty.
The arms of Bruges: an ass in an arm-chair.
A grand eloquence, little conscience.
Who has a habit, will never leave it even if his finger gets cut.
You can disguise wealth but you can't hide poverty.
The bachelor is a peacock, the fiancT is a lion and the married man a mule.
The difference between adults and children is that adults don't ask questions.
Not every one that dances is glad.
A skabbed sheep syles ail the flock.
Acts tough but really a wimp.
The first pancake is always a failure.
Take counsel before it goes ill, lest it go worse.
A dog will not make himself look like a horse just by cutting off his tail.
Before eating, open your mouth.
Elder-berry is in the kitchen-garden, therefore your Uncle is in Kiev.
Dancing was first started by a madman.
He's looking for the donkey while sitting on it.
If I listen, I have the advantage; if I speak, others have it.
He is a fool and ever shall, Who writes his name upon a wall.
Doctor Luther's shoes do not fit every parish priest.
A beautiful woman who is pleasing to men is good only for frightening fish when she falls into the water.
Darkness reigns at the foot of the lighthouse.
Fighting a losing battle.
The bigger the tree, the harder she falls.
The friendship of water and fish.
He must keep a sharp look-out who would speak the truth.
He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
When it's warm the pea loses its pod.
Believe the liar up to the door of his house and no further than that.
The hat burns on the head of the thief.
If deeds are wanting, all words appear mere vanity and emptiness.
Those who are born to be small shit never make it to big shit.
No one ever repented of having held his tongue.
He who is of the craft can discourse about it.
There's nothing fixed under the sky and the moon.
It is easy to be a man. It is hard to make oneself human.
Uneaten soup and burned mouth.
Diligence is a great teacher.
One log does not burn long by itself.
Many children and little food make thin smoerbroeds.
What was given by God to one, cannot be taken away by man.
When I was born I wept, and every day brings a reason why.
Sharing a secret with a rogue is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
A smiling face dispels unhappiness.
It is a bad well that you have to fill with water.
Discreet stops make speedy journeys.
Being hit by a dear person or by your lover is like eating raisins.
The sound of a church bell at times has more effect than a sermon.
The frost drives the pig home.
A good bottle of wine does not need a cork.
Every cock is proud on his own dung hill.
Who is stupid in the morning will be stupid in the evening.
The word "enough” does not exist for water, fire, and women.
One should go invited to a friend in good fortune, and uninvited in misfortune.
You cannot hide the smoke of the hut you set on fire.
An agreement is a kind of debt.
A farmer who would not work inside the rain and would not work under the sun, would have nothing to harvest at the end of the farming year.
A fortress on its guard is not surprised.
Two is a company; three is a crowd.
Where's sauna, there are the Estonians.
He has him under his thumb.
A turn well done is soon done.
Whether you think you can or think you can't, you're right.
Every sin brings its punishment with it.
The one who loves you will also make you weep.
It is easy to manage when fortune favors.
Think before you leap.
Four eyes see more than two.
A sutra in a horse's ear.
The ear is only a door.
Whiskey when you're sick makes you well; whiskey makes you sick when you're well.
The moon is not shamed by the barking of dogs.
Whatsoever was the father of the disease, an ill diet was the mother.
Unbridled gratification produces unbridled desire.
A dog that will fetch a bone will carry a bone.
Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise.
Her horns are too heavy for the cow.
For the lazy and the poor, everything always takes twice the effort.
God save us from the enriched poor and from the impoverished rich.
Threats are arms for the threatened.
Better be in debt than in shame.
Little birds may pick a dead lion.
Three kinds of people die poor: those who divorce, those who incur debts, and those who move around too much.
Aim at a certain issue.
Do not say the first thing that comes to your mind.
Every new broom makes noise.
Three things you cannot comprehend: the mind of a woman, the working of the bees, and the ebb and flow of the tide.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
Pig and wife are the tamest domestic animals.
The most desirable woman is always the one who belongs to someone else.
Constant rubbing of a rope will cut a stone.
The hyena chasing two antelopes at the same time will go to bed hungry.
If something happens to the master the servants will get his share too.
When a finger is pointing at the moon, the fool looks at the finger.
The dog has four feet, but he does not walk in four roads at the same time.
Rather free in a foreign place than a slave back home.
A threatened man lives seven years.
It is time enough to take off your hat when you see the man.
A tale never loses in the telling.
Jump over a log but not over your neighbor's word.
If there was not bad taste, goods would not be sold.
A foul foot makes a son wemb.
A sword in the hands of a drunken slave is less dangerous than science in the hands of the immoral.
A good trade will carry farther than a thousand florins.
As won, so spent.
If your face skewed, don't blame the mirror.
First things first.
He who lies down with dogs will rise with fleas.
Every one sings as he has the gift, and marries as he has the luck.
Pearls around the neck, stones upon the heart.
Live, horse, and you'll get grass.
Even the lion must defend himself against the flies.
Long and lazy, little and loud; fat and fulsome, pretty and proud.
It won't be dull in hell 'cause there are many companions.
The rich man's wealth tires the poor man's jaw.
If you're out to beat a dog, you're sure to find a stick.
The thief has a chicken's heart - he sleeps in fear.
Like a snail on a barrel of tar.
Peace wins over wealth.
A fool will laugh when he is drowning.
Vanity has no greater foe than vanity.
He who leaves a good name does not die poor.
Opportunity plus instinct equals profit.
Youth will have its fling.
Peace won't settle where a woman rules.
Whoever sows alongside the road, tires the oxen and wastes seed.
The old monkey is caught last.
Where macgregor sits is head of the table.
It is easy to be brave from a safe distance.
The used key is always bright.
A good paymaster needs no security.
Credit keeps the crown of the causey.
The key that is used grows bright.
A cloudy sky doesn't always cry rain.
Lying and gossiping go hand in hand.
Let a fool hold his tongue, and he will pass for a sage.
A little gall embitters much honey.
Even in hell you meet relations.
If you receive a gift don't measure it.
If no one comes the dog does not bark.
The dead in heaven is too happy to grieve for indignities to his corpse; the dead in hell has too much else to grieve for.
It is better to be alone than in bad company.
A young wife is an old man's post-horse to the grave.
Better straw, than nothing.
If the prayers of dogs were answered, bones would rain from the sky.
Came back with Hunain's shoes. meaning: Came back with nothing.
He that would live for aye, must eat sage in May.
Silence and reflection cause no dejection.
By crawling, a child learns to stand.
Better early than late.
The loveliest of faces are to be seen by moonlight, when one sees half with the eye and half with the fancy.
He who feels no compassion will become insane.
He that would stop everybody's mouth needs plenty of flour.
There's no rest for the wicked.
A person who has not secured a place on the floor should not begin to look for a mat.
If you watch your pot, your food will not burn.
Don't let the wolf guard the sheep.
Evah fool got ‘e sense.
Follow the good and learn their ways.
Good fame is better than a good face.
He who does not tire, tires adversity.
You are wise to climb Mt. Fuji, but a fool to do it twice.
Yer play with puppy, him lick you mouth.
The coroner and the lawyer grow fat on the quarrels of fools.
Hitch a horse and an ass to the same post; if they don't smell the same, they'll behave the same.
The pot reproaching the kettle.
Rivalry between scholars improves science.
Snakes prefer to hide under flowers.
Every worm to his taste.
Many hands make light work.
Never rade, never fell.
Two sparrows upon one ear of corn make ill agreement.
It is folly to take a thorn out of another's foot and put it into your own.
Self Praise is no praise.
Jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but never jam today.
As you live yourself, you judge your neighbor.
Hours once lost cannot be regained.
Better retreat in honor than advance in disgrace.
Search for a needle in the ocean.
The appetite comes with eating.
Two sharp swords cannot be is one sheath.
When one chief falls, another rises.
Speak to the devil and you'll hear the clatter of his hooves.
Thatch your roof before rainy weather, dig your well before you become parched with thirst.
When the fool is told a proverb, its meaning has to be explained to him.
No larder but hath his mice.
Don't give a child a name until after it is born.
Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
Watch out for the dog that doesn't bark and the man who says nothing.
If a man knew what would be dear, he would be but Merchant for a year.
The morning has gold in its mouth.
You may often feel that heavily on your back which you took lightly on your conscience.
He sits above that deals aikers.
When it's raining and the sun shines -- then a Turk is born.
The devil takes care of his own.
The day I did not make my toilette, there came to my house one I did not expect.
The lone sheep is in danger of the wolf.
If you steal something small you are a petty thief, but if you steal millions you are a gentleman of society.
Poverty is an enemy to good manners.
The wise bird flies lowest.
Many dogs may easily worry one hare.
Do no evil, it's a sin. Do no good, it's no use.
Death spares neither Pope nor beggar.
You can get farther with a friendly word than with a club.
Seize the opportunity by the beard, for it is bald behind.
There is no escape from heaven's web.
Two poor cows does make up good dung.
Honor follows those who flee from it.
Everyone is nice until the cow gets into the garden.
Your own bad place is far better than your companion's place.
A duck will not always dabble in the same gutter.
The spoon maker's children have often the worst spoons.
To rule the mountains is to rule the river.
A small cloud can hide the sun and the moon.
It's better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
He who wants what God wants of him will lead a free and happy life.
He who has money can eat sherbet in hell.
A bird in the cage is worth a hundred at large.
A great lance-thrust to a dead Moor.
Who grows up without fear will live without honour.
Green leaves and brown leaves fall from the same tree.
Upon an egg the hen lays an egg.
If you dress in gold or silk, you are still the same green grocer.
A good lie finds more believers than a bad truth.
From our ancestors come our names from our virtues our honor.
The hatred of knaves is to be preferred to their company.
Unless the broken tooth is thrown out the mouth will continue to chew with caution.
A horse with two masters is always skinny; the ship with two captains sinks.
The needle dresses people but stays naked itself.
He bellows like a bull, but is as weak as a bulrush.
Woe unto the patient whose doctors argue.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
You travel on until you return home; you live on until you return to earth.
We are all made of the same clay, but not from the same mold.
Do not drink in advance on the hide of a bear.
The fairer the hostess, the heavier the reckoning.
A little pot is easily hot.
No gain without pain.
The justification for profit is profit.
Last, but not least.
Idleness is the beginning of all sin.
Sharpening a knife does not frighten a horse.
What de good a education if him got no sense?
He who upsets something should know how to put it back again.
Death makes equal the high and low.
He that fights with silver arms is sure to overcome.
You're blessed if you're here on Leap year.
One eye of the master sees more than four eyes of his servants.
A good name is more valuable than a velvet garment.
We do not use our bare feet to search for hidden thorns which we have seen in day time.
Let your bargain suit your purpose.
A hidden fire is discovered by its smoke.
Love without friendship is like a shadow without the sun.
See how he has risen from a mayor to a hangman.
When the iron is hot, then is the time to strike.
Bear and bull catch no fox.
It is better to begin in the evening than not at all.
No one has mercy by magnus.
Whom we love best, to them we can say least.
All who have died are equal.
An elephant can never fail to carry its tusks.
With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant. Spreading the news is also multiplying it.
Who is brave enough to tell the lion that his breath smells?
Better an idle house than a bad tenant.
A hungry hen sees herself in a wheat silo.
Do one thing at time, with supreme excellence.
One fool may ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.
Don't worry, be happy.
First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man.
To do nothing teaches evil.
The hen doesn't have breasts, but she can still feed her chicks.
We had a dog, it helped the wolf.
A bad beginning may make a good ending.
Better is the trouble that follows death than the trouble that follows shame.
He who peeps at the neighbor's window may chance to lose his eyes.
If one throws salt at you, you will not be harmed unless you have sore places.
The lazy sweat when they eat and complain of the cold when they work.
For age and want save while you may, no morning sun lasts a whole day.
Money and friendship break the arms of justice.
He seeks a knot even on the rush.
What is now top of the mast, will be firewood soon.
He is as good a divine as Judas was an apostle.
Many births mean many burials.
The biggest rascal you'll probably ever need to deal with watches you shavin' his face in the mirror every mornin'.
A woman is like the moon-some nights it is silver others gold.
Happiness you pay for is to be found everywhere.
The first snow does not mean winter, nor the first love marriage.
Return to old watering holes for more than water; friends and dreams are there to meet you.
Who goes fasting to bed will sleep but lightly.
A bit of fragrance clings to the hand that gives flowers.
As soon as a new law is made, a way around it is devised.
A penny in a poor man's pocket is better than two in rich man's pocket.
If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too bus to take care of his tools.
Going to bed without dinner is better than waking up in debt.
The jay bird don't rob his own nest.
The fly on the back of a water buffalo thinks that it's taller than the buffalo.
The little stars will always shine while the great sun is often eclipsed.
Crawling on hands and knees has never prevented anyone from walking upright.
Coffee has two virtues, it's wet and it's warm.
To have no enemies is equivalent to wealth.
The food which is prepared has no master.
Keep within compass and you may be sure, That you will not suffer what others endure.
The ball always looks for the best player.
What God has written, a witch doctor can not erase.
It is better to be ignorant than mistaken.
A goat never grazes in the same place.
A good piece steil is worth a penny.
If you rock the cradle empty, then you shall have babies plenty.
A bird never flew on one wing.
Love can turn a cottage into a golden palace.
He who isn't around is never beaten by the falling tree.
No one was ever hung for what he was thinking.
A gentlemen of Beauce who stays in bed till his breeches are mended.
Do good, and care not to whom.
Virtue and valour rejoice in being put to the test.
Living in the past has one thing going for it; it's cheaper!
Better to sell than buy time.
There is no warmth where the sun doesn't shine.
A friend is like a source of water during a long voyage.
A bird hanging between two branches will get bitten on both wings.
Friday is longer than Saturday.
Give a man enough rope and he'll hang himself.
He who digs too deep for a fish, may come out with a serpent.
To a hasty demand a leisure reply.
The well-fed does not understand the lean.
Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny of tar.
Women are always better the following year.
An old fox does not run twice into the snare.
Learning, jewels, virtues, good habits, polite manners, sweet speech, artistry accept them from whatever source offers.
When an ass climbs a ladder, we may find wisdom in women.
Away away off the police's way, the police goes middle of the roadǃ.
Never confuse gratitude with love.
There is no cure that does not cost.
Everyone knows the bear, but the bear knows no one.
Just because you are poor does not mean you have to sleep with your mother.
Should the heavens fall, many pipkins will be broken.
He who has plenty of pepper will pepper his cabbage.
It is bitter fare to eat one's own words.
An ox can be taken by his horn, a man by his word.
Before you take any decision, consider its effect on the next seven generations.
The end of the thief is the gallows.
Those who give have all things; those who withhold have nothing.
One enemy is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.
Better lose your labour than your time in idleness.
The old boot gets the old stocking. (Said when an old couple marries.)
You cannot worship an unknown saint.
As long as the white man stutters, the interpreters have a lot of work.
When men take wives they stop fearing hell.
Clouds that thunder seldom rain.
He that abideth low cannot fall hard.
When a man moves from nature, his heart becomes hard.
sell beets/apples as lemons.
Source: Shyam Bahadur Varma, ed (2006). Encyclopaedia of Quotations. Prabhat Prakashan. p. 96.
To err is human; to forgive is divine.
Together in good and bad times.
You can't tell the depth of the well by the length of the handle on the pump.
Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them.
Abroad we judge the dress; at home we judge the man.
One road leads to heaven but many lead to hell.
The lives of doctors, the souls of priests, and the property of lawyers, are in great danger.
Peculiar people may show up anywhere.
Saint cannot if God will not.
Fine words don't feed cats.
Some men wonder over God's values, others over the cut of a garment.
Loose words are picked up like gold coin.
A lordly taste make a beggar's purse.
A journey of a thousand miles always begins with a single step.
Less said, more done.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
Better mine than ours.
A cake eaten in peace, is worth two in trouble.
Always a bridesmaid, never a bride.
Wrath begins in madness and ends in repentance.
A blow from a frying-pan, if it does not hurt, smuts.
If you play with fire you get burned.
It's raining pipestems.
Anyone can find fault, and those who find the most have the most.
A broken hand works, but not a broken heart.
Marrying is easy, it's housework that's hard.
Making the beginning is one third of the work.
For a web begun God sends thread.
What the chief likes is not always what the youths like.
A child's tear rends the heavens.
Roses grow where a teacher hits.
The mind is free and the slightest thought has great influence. It is therefore important that you think enlightened thoughts.
Kindness does not go rotten.
If you think about things too long, good thoughts will disappear.
Bring a cow into the hall and she'll run the byre.
Ye canna mak a silk purse out o' a sow's lug.
Silence is a brother of delight.
Every white hath its black, and every sweet its sour.
A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
With gold you can make a road to heaven but it will end in hell.
Danger begets caution.
The nearer the church, the further from god.
The path leads towards loved ones not thorns.
A babe in the woods.
Looking down at one's nose.
A good surfer will not get wet.
The ass's son brays one hour daily.
He who was born to be hanged will not be drowned, unless the water go over the gallows.
He who deliberates fully before taking a step will spend his entire life on one leg.
When the child cuts its teeth, death is on the watch.
If you always live with those who are lame, you will yourself learn to limp.
A hunter's knife cannot carve its own handle.
Little by little an egg will walk.
Last in bed, best heard.
Your neighbor's apples are the sweetest.
Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets.
Even an old lady makes mistakes.
A whistling woman and a crowing hen will bring no luck to the house they are in.
The road to Heaven is well signposted, but it is badly lit at night.
To ask is a temporary shame; not to ask, an eternal one.
A little doubt saves many a mistake.
There is no choicer morsel than that which is stolen.
The corn that is taken to a bad mill. will be badly ground.
A sinking vessel needs no navigation.
A spoonful of honey will catch more flies than a gallon of vinegar.
War is to a man what bed is to a woman.
Cream doesn't rise to the top, it works its way up.
Fortune lost, nothing lost; courage lost, much lost; honour lost, more lost; soul lost, all lost.
As the stone leaves your hand it belongs to the devil.
Thought when sober, said when drunk.
No fire without smoke.
A chattering scribe's guilt is great.
It is hard to wive and thrive in a year.
The night might be long, but whether you want it or not, the day will announce itself.
Don't tell secrets to the children of your relatives.
The lion basks in the rays of the giraffes sun.
Unless a man is simple, he cannot recognize God, the simple one.
Never underestimate a quiet person, for he may have qualities that belie his quiet nature.
First catch your hare, then cook it.
He that gapes until he be fed, well may he gape till he be dead.
The devil sits behind the cross.
Vengeance is slow, but stern.
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
The last comers are often the masters.
A lean agreement is better than a fat lawsuit.
A mockingbird has no voice of his own.
The beast that goes well is never without some one to try his paces.
After eating nine hundred rats, the cat is now going on a pilgrimage.
A man's in-law is his spirit.
Fire will burn itself out if it did not find anything to burn.
Rained on ground hardens.
Those who wear pearls do not know how often the shark bites the leg of the diver.
Beware of the front of a bull, the back of a horse and both sides of a blind man.
If anyone is not willing to accept your point of view, try to see his point of view.
An escaped lie does not reach the truth.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
When the tree is down everybody runs to the branches.
The world can be conquered with words, but not with drawn swords.
Poverty is no sin, but terribly inconvenient.
God is high above, and russia is far away.
One "take this” is better than ten "God help you!”.
One devil does not make hell.
A deluge of words and a drop of sense.
A hungry clown is half mad.
Year after year we long for (what we left behind) the previous year.
A single prayer moves heaven.
The first half of the night, think of your own faults; the second half, the faults of others.
God did not create hurry.
Twa wits are better than ane.
Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we shall die.
Feed sparingly and defy the physician.
You can't unscramble an egg.
Every sheep is hung by its own leg.
Go to your rich friend's house when invited; to your poor friend's without invitation.
He who is shipwrecked the second time cannot lay the blame on Neptune.
If you want to have a happy life, stay far away from your relatives.
Beware of vinegar made of sweet wine.
Heresy is the school of pride.
Ye breed of the gouk, ye have not a rime but ane.
Real wealth consists not in having, but in not wanting.
Soft and fair goes far.
The hyena of your own country does not break your bones.
The charitable give out the door and God puts it back through the window.
Fortune favors the bold.
A false friend is like a shadow their only with you when the sun is shining.
There are more ways of killing a dog than hanging it.
Not all the baboons that enter a maize field come out satisfied.
Preparing cocoyams for planting does not mean that they are already planted.
A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times.
Saving is a greater art than gaining.
When you shoot an arrow of truth, dip its point in honey.
When once at sea, do not long to be on shore.
When cold revenge is served, the dish is always very good.
Throw that bone to another dog.
Opportunities, like eggs, come one at a time.
Who reaches for the spruce, falls down onto the juniper.
You cannot sup soup with a fork.
People lend only to the rich.
We are not so much concerned if you are slow as when you come to a halt.
Each country's customs are different, just as each meadow's grass is different.
Immortal glory waits on talent.
Little pitchers have large ears.
A diamond with a flaw is better than a common stone that is perfect.
A good ruser was never a good rider.
The kola nut stays longer in the mouths of those who value it.
The brains don't like in the beard.
Others' bread has seven crusts.
Don't be breaking your shin on a stool that's not in your way.
Character is a diamond that scratches every other stone.
Sunshine without rain makes a desert.
How can the cat help it if the maid be a fool?
Walls have ears, and little pots too.
Never marry a woman who has bigger feet than you.
The hen ought not to cackle in presence of the cock.
Gather thistles, expect prickles.
Every sheep will be hanged from its own legs.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Every man should support himself, and not hang upon another.
If you drink a belly full you'll regret it all day.
The strength of the palm tree is in its branches.
Wit in a poor mans head, and mosse in a mountain, avails nothing.
The people meet each other but the hills do not.
A corn swallowed by a fowl will never germinate in its belly.
All the wool is hair, more or less.
A turkey never voted for an early Christmas.
Time passes, it waits for nobody.
With everything Messina has the port, but for beautiful Palermo it is always just an orchard.
There is small choice in rotten apples.
You count the sand.
Ask too much to get enough.
Where there are many people, there God is.
Death finds everyone and the earth renews itself.
It is good to have some friends both in heaven and hell. (1640)
An idle youth becomes in age a beggar.
We must not expect everything, everywhere, and from everybody.
If a man deceives me once, shame on him; if he deceives me twice, shame on me.
Good wine needs not a wisp.
The more one has the more one wants.
A beautiful thing is never perfect.
He who has bitter in his breast spits not sweet.
Wish thy friend joy of his journey, but pray in secret that he have no joy, for then may he return quickly to thee.
What lay hidden under the snow cometh to light at last.
A beggar will always be a beggar even if they give him the whole world as a gift.
A little and a little, collected together, becomes a great deal; the heap in the barn consists of single grains, and drop and rop makes an inundation.
Literal tranlation: A lot of noise, little wool.
The vine brings forth three grapes: the first of pleasure, the second of drunkenness, the third of sorrow.
You shake a man's hand, you don't shake his heart.
From truth to falsehood there's a four-finger distance.
The sparrow says: "I have not eaten... so the parrot will not eat either."
The fox loves cunning, the wolf covets the lamb, and a woman longs for praise.
You will not see many with green eyes.
Familiarity is like the sea that kills the fisherman.
Man's only real possession is his character.
Let the man who has suffered ask it -- not the man who has travelled.
Give your friend your blood and money.
Wine wears no breeches.
As sluttish and slatternly as an Irishwoman bred in France .
As you pay the price with the fertilizer, the hoe and pruning determines the harvest of the olives.
Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?
It came a wrinkle to love.
An unshod mocks a shoe.
Evil thoughts often come from idleness.
Words often do more than blows.
If you have no hand you can't make a fist.
The drunkard thinks of only one thing and the barman of something else.
Give one fish and he's fed for only a day.
There is no fishing for trout in dry breeches.
Love of dress is sure the very curse.
Teaching is half learning.
Tomorrow your horse may be lame.
Don't divide the fur on the bear.
The memory of happiness makes misery woeful.
The scythe ran into a stone.
Call the bear "uncle” till you are safe across the bridge.
Friendship is friendship, but keep our tobacco apart.
The eel that got away is as fat as your thigh.
Do not all you can; spend not all you have; believe not all you hear; and tell not all you know.
Once broken, the pack-saddle will follow.
Milk the cow, but do not pull off the udder.
Every man must carry his own sack to the mill.
The drowning man is not troubled by rain.
Don't join in the celebration or holiday if you feel disgruntled.
When passion entereth at the fore-gate wisdom goes out at the postern.
Chastise the good man, he will grow better; chastise the bad, and he will grow worse.
With his spear.
A new broom sweeps clean, but an old one scrapes better.
The wind does not break a tree that can bend.
Words are mere bubbles of water; deeds are drops of gold.
A woman's honor consists in the good opinion the world has of her.
Close enough for horseshoes and hand grenades.
Discouragement is the devil's most valuable tool.
Works, and not words, are the proofs of love.
If Only youth had knowledge and old age ability.
Many a friend has been lost by a jest, but none has ever been got by one.
Nice words appease even the enemy.
Necessity seeks bread where it is to be found.
To sell honey to one who keeps hives.
Those who don't look forward, stay behind.
When the cat and the mouse agree, the grocer is ruined.
It is a hard morsel that chokes.
To a seamen of Kwale, death by water is common experience.
Not to have felt pain is not to have been human.
When the shark laughs with the dolphin, there is a devilish spirit at play.
A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.
When a ship is broken, the accident does not prevent others from sailing.
If you can't reward then you should thank.
Worry is like a rocking chair it swings you back and forth and it takes you nowhere.
When the fool knows when to be silent, he would be sitting among the wise.
Do not leave todays homework for tomorrow.
Don't take seriously the cat who mourns for a mouse.
The government will fall that raises the price of beer.
No office so humble but it is better than nothing.
Poor men's words have little weight.
Let me tell you about my fate: it is an insult. Let me explain it to you: it is a disgrace.
Rather a bitter truth than a sweet lie.
You will reap whatever you sow.
It's bad manners to talk about ropes in the house of a man whose father was hanged.
A person is known by the company he keeps.
A spectator sees more than a player in the heat of a game.
Good deeds are the best prayer.
Fowl cock en got nuh right in bulldog fight.
Fools must not be set on eggs.
Nothing dries up more quickly than a tear.
Ae man may steal a horse where another daurna look ower the hedge.
Vinegar that is too sour even taints the glass it's kept in.
To die is to stop living but to stop living is something entirely different than dying.
You praise yourself so much you're never finished.
Clear pacts, long friendship.
It is good to know the truth and to speak the truth. It is even better to know the truth and speak about palm trees.
Just because you are irritated by a mosquito, you burn the mosquito curtain.
Regrets always come later.
If I say, it is pregnant, If I do not say, it is not pregnant.
The mouse is caught in the trap.
Strong wood is worth more than painted wood.
Who does not wish to be like the wolf let him not wear its skin.
Couldn't hit the broad side of the barn.
At night all women are alike.
He who has received a kindness forgets it; he who has been injured remembers it.
Knowledge is better than wealth, you have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you.
Rome wasn't built in one day.
Man cannot stir one inch without the push of heaven's finger.
Claw me, and I will claw thee.
Every hair casts its shadow.
It is kindly that the poke fair of the Herring.
More are drowned in the bowl than in the sea.
Paradise without people is not worth living in..
He's like the smith's dog - so wheel used to the sparks that he'll no burn.
A handful of motherwit is worth a bushel of learning.
When the candles are all out, all women are fair.
All that is not given is lost.
The wise understand; fools follow the reports of others.
A silent man is the best one to listen to.
Big in body, but small in deeds.
Eight Immortals cross the sea, each employing his or her theurgy.
Let not the tongue speak what the head may have to pay for.
The exhausting aspen trembled: wish I were a free coniferous tree!
What you do in black hair you will eat in white hair.
Let no man deceive you with vain words.
Whoever invented work must not have had anything to do.
When you see a goat you should always hit him.
In anger a man becomes dangerous to himself and to others.
In a broken nest there are few whole eggs.
A lot of crying and little wool.
Hell is populated with the victims of harmless amusements.
A fox barks not when he would steal the lamb.
You have to take it as it happens, but you should try to make it happen the way you want to take it.
Ill-gotten goods never thrive.
Promise freely, fullfill sparingly.
The palest ink is better than the best memory.
Taxes grow without rain.
The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant.
Dead with tea and dead without it.
A rich man who does not know himself is worth less than a poor man who does.
Nobody entering a hut pays for the heart he will enjoy in it.
Never take for granted a quiet person, for he may have qualities that belie his quiet nature.
Old age will not come alone.
Never ask when you can take.
Away from home the girl picks forbidden fruit.
When the eye sees you then your bound to go for duty.
A little bit of experience is better than a barrel full of knowledge.
Hunger is the best spice.
Trust, but locate the doors.
You can take a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
A friend's fault should be known but not abhorred.
The Child of an elephant will not be a dwarf.
The rich eat when they want, the poor when they can.
Wisdom is in the head and not in the beard.
If pride were a disease, how many would be already dead?
After great droughts come great rains.
Rise never at nighttime, except thou art spying.
In the hotel of decisions the guests sleep well.
Outward appearances assuming the form of virtues.
Forget the favors you have given; remember those received.
The donkey won't drink if he can't see water.
It is a greater gift to give than to receive.
It's a good thing for a liar to have a good memory.
The early bird catches the worm.
They couldn't beat the donkey so they beat the saddle.
Practice not your art, and it will soon depart.
As you have arranged the thread so must you weave it.
That which is done at night appears in the day.
Seed ground that has been fallow, not ground that has just yielded fruitfully.
When love is given, love should be returned, anger gives no life.
The witch kills "he ate and he did not give me”, but she does not kill, "he gave me too little.”.
Pluck the magpie, and don't make her scream.
Waste makes want.
Beware of the person who gives you advice according to his own interests.
When there is room in the heart, there is room in the house.
One father is better at caring for ten children than ten children are for one father.
Where there's life, there's hope.
Gold is the devil's fishhook.
He who lives a long life must pass through much evil.
Flies are easier caught with honey than with vinegar.
Your nose is a part of you even if it was cut.
Some who just tell tales of themselves.
Better a good neighbor than a bad relative.
If a rich man dies, all the world is moved; if a poor man dies, nobody knows it.
If you have a dog, don't throw away bones.
Good sense is as important as food.
Dawn does not come twice to awaken a man.
That miller is honest who has hair on his teeth.
He that rides ahint anither doesna saddle when he pleases.
A man's personal god is a shepherd who finds pasturage for the man. Let him lead him like sheep to the food they can eat.
Only through suffering and sorrow do we acquire the wisdom not found in books.
This bolt came never out of your bag.
The frying-pan says to the kettle, "Avaunt, black brows!"
Better one bird in the hand than ten in the sky.
A good deed is something one returns.
Sometimes the face can tell what the lips can't say.
Love is partner of blindness.
Drink upon salad costs the doctor a ducat; drink upon eggs costs him two.
Never let the competition know what your thinking.
An ill tongue may do much.
A fool gives full vent to his anger, but a wise man keeps himself under control.
A gosling flew over the Rhine, and came home a goose.
It is difficult to catch a black cat in a dark room - especially if the cat isn't there.
If ye had as little money as ye have manners, ye would be the poorest man of all your kin.
A beautiful woman belongs to everyone; an ugly one is yours alone.
Your friend has a friend, and your friend's friend has another friend - so know when to keep quiet.
A cackling hen doesn't always lay.
The peacock has fair feathers, but foul feet.
Walking in two is medicine.
Come seldom, come welcome.
Rat belly full, potato have skin.
It is a hard winter when one wolf eats another.
Much law, but little justice.
There wouldn't be such a thing as counterfeit gold if there were no real gold somewhere.
He is past preaching who does not care to do well.
One must be either anvil or hammer.
Weight and measure save a man toil.
The nail sticks out of the sack.
In teaching others, we teach ourselves.
What the people think cannot be denied.
You will often see a high collar above an empty stomach.
If the cockroach wants to rule over the chicken, then it must hire the fox as a body-guard.
He that has no charity deserves no mercy.
You must chop down the tree that gives too much or too little shade.
Rats make havoc in the kitchen when the cat's a kitten.
Catch a tiger with bare hands.
If a man would live in peace, he should be blind, deaf, and dumb.
Who has no children does not know what love is.
Large trees give more shade than fruit.
Nothing dries so fast as tears.
Kill your anger while it is small.
There is light at the end of the tunnel.
Success (only) comes after every necessary precaution.
If the bull would throw you, lie down.
Life is uncertain so eat your desert first.
It is beautiful to do nothing and then rest afterwards.
One night with an ugly woman and one day in the mountains both are like an eternity.
No one can uproot the tree which God has planted.
The greatest wealth is contentment with a little.
Love will find a way. Indifference will find an excuse.
Death closes all doors.
Lick upwards, kick downwards.
Money is an epitome of human power.
Education has no ending.
Full stomachs don't believe empty ones.
In bad things be slow; in good things be quick.
From his silence a man's consent is inferred.
"t is not with saying, "Honey," "Honey," that sweetness will come into the mouth.
Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald.
He who heeds the first word of his wife must listen forever to the second.
Any port in a storm.
One does not enter into the water and then run from the cold.
Horns are not too heavy for the cow.
Candlemas, Candlemas, whether windy or rainy, winter has ended. And if the weather is good, winter will last another thirty days.
It is the belly which daily gives thanks.
Avarice commonly occasions injury to the person who displays it.
O daughter, i'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it.
A glutton lives to eat; a wise man eats to live.
When the big fish fight the shrimps must lie low.
There is life in the rain.
There are more whores in hiding than there are public ones.
If you want to find out about the road ahead, then ask about it from those coming back.
Old age and treachery will overcome youth and skill.
Perform good deeds; you will not regret them.
No matter how long the night is, the morning is sure to come.
The greatest things are done by the help of small ones.
A rabbithorn cannot be a war-horse and will only become a laughingstock if he should try.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
The tighter you squeeze, the less you have.
A little gall spoils much honey.
Never ask God to give you anything; ask Him to put you where things are.
To buy the pig in the bag.
You should not add oil to the fire... Nëm këll a tűzre olajat önteni.
An oak is not felled with one stroke.
Cast a bane in the deil's teeth.
That fair face will as years roll on lose its beauty, and old age will bring its wrinkles to the brow.
He that will take the bird must not scare it.
Who falls short in the head, must be long in the heels.
A cheap thing doesn't lack defect, nor an expensive thing quality.
All's alike at the latter day: a bag of gold and wisp of hay.
No man's master, no master's man.
A head stuck on a pike no longer conspires.
What signifies the barking of a dog that don't bite?
All's grist that comes to the mill.
Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door.
A child is a bridge to heaven.
Noth hät kenn Geboot.
The wolf has a thick neck, because he does his job on his own.
Weather, wind, women, and fortune change like the moon.
The bite of a dog is healed by the hair of it.
Drunken days have their tomorrow.
We all labour against our own cure, for death is the cure of all diseases. (Sir Thomas Browne)
The stew mixed by many is ill-seasoned and worse cooked.
You have to put a young girl onto an old man.
The devil lurks behind the cross.
Bear witness to facts, not words.
When the treasure chest is open, even the just man sins.
Pissing in your shoes won't keep your feet warm for long.
Death is the black camel that kneels before every door.
Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails.
When the head does not work, the legs suffer.
It is only the water that is spilled; the bowl is not broken.
The heart is but the beach beside the sea that is the world.
You don't always miss the bus. Sometimes, it misses you.
He keeps two irons in the fire.
Heed the troubadour, burn the dinner.
Crowd around for the getting, move out of the way when it's time to pay.
The world is a tavern and the way hereafter is our home.
Many a good cow has an evil calf.
You will never lose a battle if you know your own situation as well as that of the enemy.
Listen a hundred times; ponder a thousand times; speak once.
Bad beginnings lead to bad results.
A hog in armor is still a hog.
If you put seeds where there are rushes you won't gather toasties.
Stubborn men make lawyers.
The patience of the hunter is always greater than that of the prey.
Thank you, pretty pussy, was the death of my cat.
In the end things will mend.
Who seeds wind, shall harvest storm.
By his own hand he wrapped the snake around his neck.
Your five year old son is your instructor; at ten your slave; at fifteen your equal and after that either friend or foe.
A klingon warrior is always prepared to fight.
Empty like the cuckoo's nest.
If a man is to do something more than human, he must have more than human powers.
What's bred in the bone will come out in the flesh.
Too many roosters crowing at the same time make the dawn take too long.
He who cannot work out his salvation by heart will not do it by book.
Klingons do not lie in bed.
It is worse to be wounded by words than a sword.
Cold tea and cold rice are tolerable; cold looks and cold words aren't.
Those in a high position can be seen from far away.
To carry coals to Newcastle.
A good cock can never have too many hens.
There is one fish in the pond, and ten anglers on the bank.
Better afield with the birds than hanging on lords.
A dog is worthy of his food.
The wise man says "I am looking for truth”; and the fool, "I have found truth.”.
Two watermelons cannot be carried in one hand.
Minds are like parachutes; they only function when they are open.
It is always good to have two strings to your bow.
Wealth is both an enemy and a friend.
Like trying to put a comb upon the nun's head.
Learn to say before you sing.
Sparrows who emulate peacocks are likely to break a thigh.
When a dove begins to associate with crows its feathers remain white but its heart grows black.
A fair booty makes a fair thief.
By lamplight every country wench seems handsome.
One, one dutty build dam .
My house is my castle.
A wasp can be more dangerous than a tiger.
By submitting to an old insult you invite a new one.
Looking up we are not ashamed in the presence of heaven, nor bowing down are we ashamed in the presence of earth.
Skill is only a rumour, until it reaches the muscle.
The master has long arms, but they don't reach heaven.
Anes wood, never wise, ay the worse.
Good words and no deeds.
To a hard knot a hard wedge.
A man is no more encumbered by his soul than the steed by his bridle or the lake by the swan.
Be as hard as the world requires you to be, and as soft as the world allows you to be.
It is not a sin to sell dear, but it is to make ill measure.
You can't take the milk back from the coffee.
Though the emperor be rich, he cannot buy one extra year.
A well educated man always has a kind word to say about the place.
Old wood lights better but burns out quicker.
The way a donkey expresses gratitude is by giving someone a bunch of kicks.
A hungry man smells meat far.
Don't value a gem by what it is set in.
A white Christmas fills the churchyard.
A strong remedy for evils is ignorance of them.
If you wish to do a good deed, consult no one.
Diplomacy is the art of letting someone else have your way.
The nicest woman is your own; the nicest harvest is your neighbors.
Where coin is not common, provisions can be scant.
Hope is the last to abandon the unhappy.
Bad ware is never cheap.
If at noon the King declares it is night, behold the stars.
Far from court, far from care.
‘Tis best woo where a man can see the smoke.
He gains much who loses a vain hope.
If you live like that, you're bound to come to a bad end.
Fedot, yet not the right one.
To rise with the lark, and go to bed with the lamb.
By perseverance the snail reached the arc.
If you want to be respected, you must respect yourself.
It is better if they say, "He ran away here" than "He died here."
Learn from your tears and you will win laughing.
Alms do not decrease, going to church does not hinder.
Cocks that crow too early will quickly find themselves in the pot.
An axe does not cut down a tree by itself.
He who cheats the earth will be cheated by the earth.
Public before private and country before family.
The cowl does not make the monk.
When you pick up the stick, the stealing cat gets alert.
Our neighbor's children are always the worst.
Cutting by the tongue is different from cutting by the knife.
The prettiest birds are in a cage.
The fox does not do as much mischief in a year as it pays for in an hour.
The mountains are never so far apart but the animals find one another.
True love means what's mine is yours.
Our love is hot like November in Rustari.
A blacksmith has no need of an axe.
Kindred without friends, friends without power, power without will, will without effect, effect without profit, profit without virtue, is not worth a rush.
Drink water like an ox, wine like the king of Spain.
A noisy cow gives little milk.
When you take a knife away from a child, give him a piece of wood instead.
To a weaving that has begun, God sends threads.
The fact that you have gone near the battle-field does not mean that you fought.
Invite people into your parlor, and they will come into your bedroom.
Live with wolves, and you learn to howl.
If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get ill.
Pluck flowers as they bloom; wait and you'll have only the twigs.
The watched chicken never lays.
What the Gods make, the planet can find use for.
Tomorrow never comes.
Obeisance to the self that is a reflection of eternal reality.
The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch.
It is easier to talk than to hold one's tongue.
The reason some people are stingy is also the reason they are rich.
If you dig a pit for others, you might fall into it yourself.
Borrowed garments never fit well.
A man or a woman with many children has many homes.
There is an herb for every kind of sickness but not for death.
False hope kills more readily than bitter truth.
He who has an art has everywhere a part.
She is like a road - pretty, but crooked.
The brain is not in the pocket, but in the head.
Iron is worked when it's still hot.
He who brings firewood infected with maggots in his house should not complain when lizards start visiting him.
Sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease.
Those who shine in the second rank, are eclipsed by the first.
He who hangs out a branch wants to sell his wine.
A bespattered hog tries to bespatter another.
Bad is the wool that cannot be died.
Every wind does not shake down the nut.
What is honour? a word. What is that word, honour? Air. (William Shakespeare)
Fire is next akin to smoke.
You should discuss over a dog's hide when it concerns your interest.
For some people war is war, for others - dear mother.
Children will thrive best on varied diet/life.
After killing a yakur bird your hands will stink.
Bear patiently that which thou sufferest by thine own fault.
Go not with every hunger to the cupboard, nor with every thirst to the pitcher.
If envy would burn, there would be no need for wood.
The bones for those who come late.
Believe half of what you hear about wealth and holiness.
Sorrow, nobody dies about it.
If while climbing a tree you insist on going beyond the top, the earth will be waiting for you.
He who sups with the Devil should have a long spoon.
A brave man seldom is hurt in the back.
Giving gold coins to a cat.
Beauty is only skin deep.
A wise man without a book is like a workman with no tools.
A drunk man's words are a sober man's thoughts.
He who defects on the way finds flies on his way back.
Beware of a man's shadow and a bee's sting.
The Russian knows the way, yet he asks for directions.
The envious never give praise, they only take it in.
After the daughter is married, then come sons-in-law in plenty.
To pick up in a clumsy way is stealing, to steal in a skillful way is to pick up.
A potter eats from a broken piece of his pots.
If you have no teeth, do not break to clay cooking pot.
Do not refuse the body what it asks for.
Easy to enroll a thousand soldiers. But, ah, one general!.
He who does not pick up a pin cares nothing for his wife.
The beginning is always difficult, but in the end stands the thank.
Reason does not come before years.
Do not search for a calf under an ox.
It needs a high wall to keep out fear.
The darkest hour is before dawn.
One bad word beats nine good words.
Who wakes and rises at the first cry of the songbird collects the best fruit of the night.
One does evil enough who does nothing good.
Smoke spreads further than the fire.
A good name is better than riches.
Throw January cabbages in the garbage.
The world is our house. Keep it clean.
When water stays at one place, it rots.
Today is yesterday's pupil.
To be a merchant, the art consists more in getting paid than in making sales.
All time spent angry is time lost being happy.
When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other.
He who climbs high, has a great fall.
A madman does not lack wisdom.
Good talk saves the food.
If you cannot be chaste, be cautious.
A black hen lays a white egg.
Some men will build a wine cellar when they have found just one grape.
Too far east is west.
Will he nill he, the ass must go the fair.
If you damage the character of another, you damage your own..
prepare for the evil dog a dog who's equal to it.
Small birds must have meat.
You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money.
Continually give, continually gain.
The thrill is in the chase, not the quarry.
They must stand high who would see their own destiny.
Small boats sail, as well as ships.
Don't give cherries to pigs or advice to fools.
An ounce of do is worth a pound of tell how.
Each country has its own custom.
It makes a difference if the pope is on your side.
A man in love schemes more than a hundred lawyers.
It is all one whether you are bit by a dog or a bitch.
The Devil finds work for idle hands to do.
A remote stick does not kill a snake.
Even the smallest little bush casts some shadow.
When hard work goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window.
It's much easier to swim in the direction of the current.
Praise the ripe field, not the green corn.
He cuts the tree under himself.
When pigs fly.
As the man is, so is his speech.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
Every man rejoices in his peculiar study.
A fly that falls on your wound is more important.
A well-wisher sees from afar.
Every bean hath its black.
A dripping june sets all in tune.
Merit is often belied by the countenance.
It is the first shower that wets.
Divide to conquer.
If the master gnaws bones, what will he give the dog?
Beggars can't be choosers. For a good appetite there is no hard bread.
He who lies down in the wash will be eaten by swine.
Silence is the fence around wisdom.
Nutcrackers crack cedar seeds, monks crack rosary beads.
He who lives according to nature will never be poor, and he who lives according to opinion will never be rich.
A slipshod man wastes away in the midst of plenty.
Earth is but a marketplace; heaven is home.
A handful of couscous is better than Mecca and all its dust.
To bait and to grease does not retard a journey.
A blow to another's purse is like a blow to a mountain of sand.
We seldom fear what we can laugh at.
He whose clothes are too fine, shall go about in rags.
There is an hour wherein a man might be happy all his life, could he find it.
love and faith are seen in their works.
The smith's dog sleeps at the noise of the hammer, and wakes at the grinding of teeth.
Happy the house in which there is no shaven crown.
If we blame others for our failures, then we should also give others credit for our successes.
To find out about the road ahead, ask those coming back.
A lie can be halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on.
One can't break an axe with a whip.
Literal meaning: Give me long life and throw me in the sea.
Use your time in May to stock up for winter.
A horse of good breed is not dishonored by his saddle.
It is easy to bear the misfortunes of others.
Nothing will content him who is not content with a little.
You can't pick up two melons with one hand.
Failing to plan is planning to fail.
A flying crow always catches something.
A clever person turns great troubles into little ones and little ones into none at all.
If a man fools me once, shame on him. If he fools me twice, shame on me.
Saints fly only in the eyes of their disciples.
Cleverness is better than strength.
He who falls victim to his enemies can expect no mercy.
Whoever does not help himself cannot help others.
"i'll go myself,” and "i'll see to it,” are two good servants on a farm.
There is seldom cattle without some motley animals.
Discord between the powerful is a fortune for the poor.
Who falls in the water will hold on to the foam to save himself.
There is a dog in the well.
The goat says: "they bought my mother, not i.”.
His money burns a hole in his pocket.
It's easier to know your enemies than to know your friends.
Either the camel, or the camel man.
An absent saint gets no candles.
Better be silent than speak ill.
To die in the line of duty is the hope of every klingon.
Where God bestows an office, he provides brains to fill it.
He who sleeps does not sin.
The righteous say little and do much.
The camel and his driver -- each has his own plan.
Why to be a sorrow to someone when you could be a joy to many?
The anger of the prudent never shows.
A fearful person even fears the hare.
He who has no patience, has nothing at all.
Nobody is perfect.
From a silent person remove your dwelling.
A word from the mouth, a stone from the hand.
Do not spit into the well that you might need to drink out of.
The best weapon is the one that's to hand.
Married couples who love each other tell each other a thousand things without talking.
An elephant that kills a rat cannot be considered a hero.
Hard bread does the cheek red.
Experience is the comb that nature gives us when we are bald.
A pig that is used to wallowing in the mud looks for a clean person to rub against.
Hunger, work, and sweat are the best herbs.
Give and take is fair play.
He who sows peas on the highway does not get all the pods into his barn.
A genius does not shout his wisdom from the housetops.
One does harm, and another bears the blame.
It is better to give away the wool than the sheep.
Gold rain drops on a foreign country,wherelse rain of stones drops on our country,but our country is better.
Who lives in a quiet house has plenty.
Everyone thinks of his own gain, and plays in this way to deceive his companion.
The simple man's the begger's brother.
Measure the corn of others with your own bushel.
By learning to obey, you will know how to command.
You are sure to marry a woman either beautiful or ugly; If ugly she will be a punishment; if beautiful, you will share her with others. Therefore do not marry.
Looking at a king's mouth one would never think he sucked his mother's breast.
Go to friends for advice; to women for pity; to strangers for charity; to relatives for nothing.
Food gained by fraud tastes sweet to a man, but he ends up with gravel in his mouth.
They who do not wash well, do not bleach well.
"When the rooster dies must the hen begin to sing", said the widow.
The wearer best knows where the shoe pinches.
There is help for everything, except death.
Bad egg, bad chick.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
If it's in your way, knock it down.
The sin for which you repent is the father of virtue; but a virtue that you talk about, is the mother of sin.
Only those who were born to hang are not afraid of the water.
Who could shut up folks' expression and language?
The knee feels the tapping.
The child who died too soon was always beautiful and intelligent.
The rich would have to eat money if the poor did not provide food.
Better to hold it than to chase it.
How can you expect to find ivory in a dog's mouth?
It is hard to blow with a full mouth.
An evil Indian but his bussiness is good.
He who restrains his appetite avoids debt.
It is easier to put leather on the soles of one's feet than cover the world with leather.
It is a poor wood that has never a withered bough in it.
Charity well regulated begins at home.
The bad gardener quarrels with his rake.
A black plum is as sweet as a white.
Do on the hill as you would do in the hall.
Tall trees catch much wind.
A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools.
Where there is no shame, there is no honor.
A blind hen can sometimes find her corn.
A bettlesie brain cannot lye.
No wonder lasts over three days.
Better to drink the milk than to eat the cow.
Quiet people are like still water their deep.
A half-truth is a whole lie.
The lyrics of the national anthem of the Czech Republic:.
Providence tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
He who begins and does not finish loves their pains.
Sow thin, shear thin. (Strauss, 1998 p. 1158)
Who asks at once for a lot, returns home with an empty bag.
The cat knows who's meat it has eaten.
Better rule in hell, than serve in heaven.
A person should stay alive, if only out of curiosity.
When sorrow is asleep, wake it not.
However little food we have, we'll share it even if it's only one locust.
The rainbow is a sign from Him who is in all things.
He who never begins will never end.
Every day has its night.
Coming events cast their shadow before.
Sow with the Sirocco but not with the North wind.
The juice of an Immature coconut Is not like the real coconut juice.
The headache is mine and the cows are ours.
A good millstone does not meet a good miller.
If you want a faithful dog start rearing him when he is young.
How many daily read the Bible, and yet pursue their course of evil.
God does not ask to withstand more than is possible.
The eyes are bigger than the belly.
Kind words don't wear out the tongue.
If a child washes his hands he could eat with kings.
You can get far with a lie, but not come back.
He whose account is clean will have a happy face.
It is better to satisfy our hunger than to be clothed in purple.
It is weil warit they have sorrow, that buyes it with their silver.
The happier the time, the more quickly it passes.
The dog that trots about finds a bone.
It is better to walk than to run; it is better to stand than to walk; it is better to sit than to stand; it is better to lie than to sit.
Without an ax no tree can be cut down.
Rainy march, beehives full of worms, and rams with colds.
Charge nothing and you'll get a lot of customers.
Chop wood, carry water.
A spoon full of skytter spills a pot full of skins.
There can be no true pleasantry without discretion.
At the narrow passage, there is no brother and no friend.
Trash is the money compared to happiness.
Many kiss the child for the nurse's sake.
Light in the streets, shadows in the house.
He lays his eggs beside his nest.
Who remove stones bruise their fingers.
Revenge remains not unrevenged.
One who is fit to sit facing the south.
He pays for the glasses who breaks them.
If you are going to die you will die in the dark even if you have been in the candle business.
Life is the source of all things.
Let the wormy of it drop off.
A small house is enough room for a thousand friends.
It's so bright white like the conscience of an angel.
Don't drown yourself to save a drowning man.
When a man is in a hurry, the devil is merry.
Who eats like a wolf will work like a bear.
Nothing so bad but it might have been worse.
A rowing stane gathers nae fog.
If you speak the truth, keep a foot in the stirrup.
Stolen waters are sweet.
Don't sign a paper without reading it, or drink water without seeing it.
The watch-dog does not get sweet milk unless there be drowned mice in it.
It is easier to raise the Devil than to lay him.
When the tree falls every one runs to gather sticks.
You are permitted in times of great danger to walk.
In healthy body healthy spirit.
Many a cloud has a silver lining.
Thieves don't like to see their comrades carrying the bags.
Good and quickly seldom meet.
Your wife and sheep early at home.
The hunchback sees the hump of others – never his own.
Someone who expect to become someone that beyond him.
A womans tongue cracks bones.
Plain oil cures every pain.
Everything is of every year.
May the saddest day of your future be no worse than the happiest day of your past.
Some have been thought brave because they were afraid to run away.
Even if the old woman has no teeth, her tiger nuts remain in her own bag.
One should choose a wife with the ears, rather than with the eyes.
A stout heart breaks ill fortune.
Even the cock is jealous concerning his hen.
A tottering man must lean upon a staff.
Beauty will fade, but not goodness.
Third time lucky.
What's drinking? / A mere pause from thinking. (Lord Byron)
He who licks knives will soon cut his tongue.
A dog shows affection even to a poor family.
A vessel filled with water does not make a noise when shaken.
Try it first and then say it's saltless.
Auld folk are twice bairns.
Big head, little wit.
It is hard to live in Rome and strive against the Pope.
Everything passes; everything wears out; everything breaks.
Nineteen nay-says of a maiden are half a grant.
When you are looking for a country with no tombstones you will find yourself in the land of cannibals.
A woman is like a blanket: If you cover yourself with it, it bothers you; if you throw it aside you will feel the cold.
Clay and lime conceal much evil.
Begin in time to finish without hurry.
One beats the bush, and another catches the bird.
If you cannot heal the wound, do not tear it open.
English analogy:.
If you were born lucky, even your rooster will lay eggs.
Swarms in March make good honey.
Treachery lurks in honeyed words.
The chamber-bell is the worst sound one have in his ears.
Who stumbles without falling makes a bigger step.
Big boast, small roast.
Where there are birds, there is water.
A warrior does not complain about physical discomfort.
Send a boy where he wants to go and you see his best pace.
Charity gives itself rich; covetousness hoards itself poor.
The rich have no pain.
A son is a son 'till he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all her life.
Strength is like milk - it is inexhaustible.
A little man often cast a long shadow.
Can't carry the weight of his two ears.
Without human companions, paradise itself would be an undesirable place.
Never rely on the glory of the morning nor the smiles of your mother-in-law.
He who burns down his house knows why ashes cost a fortune.
Remember the wisdom of your ancestors in order to become wise.
A learned man is twice born.
Look and keep silent, and if you are eating meat, tell the world it's fish.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Do not be wise in words – be wise in deeds.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the Keystone Pipeline.
He who cannot rest, cannot work; he who cannot let go, cannot hold on; he who cannot find footing, cannot go forward.
The eagle does not hunt flies.
If you fail to plan, then you plan to fail.
When you have given nothing, ask for nothing.
Take each day as it comes.
Don't budge, if you sit at ease.
Don't spit in headwind.
In a tree that you can't climb, there are always a thousand fruits.
Work is not a delicacy. If it were a delicacy, the masters would do it themselves.
Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter.
All things happen when their times come.
You can't shame the wicked.
If you're short of trouble take a goat.
Once you have been tossed by a buffalo, a black ox looks like a buffalo.
The visitor who goes away without eating never comes back.
No one is luckier than him who believes in his luck.
It is better to be a bull for a year than a cow for a hundred years.
Young man's mind and April's snow.
A hunter is not afraid of thorns.
To accept a favour is to sell one's freedom.
Never point out the mistakes of another with a dirty finger.
What you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts.
Every one praises his own saint.
If a man deceive me once, shame on him; if he deceive me twice, shame on me.
Make sure your blanket covers your feet.
Time is a great story teller.
Who has lied once will not be believed the second time.
Better leave something to an enemy than borrow from a friend.
Hygiene is two thirds of health.
Two of a trade can never agree.
Promised berries will not fill the basket.
It takes three generation to make a gentleman.
Even a big elephant can be caught in one female hair.
Pride comes before fall.
Least said, soonest mended.
Hope in the Lord, but exert yourself.
Fools are like other folks as long as they are silent.
He who willingly gives you a finger will also give you the whole hand.
Cry not out before you are hurt.
On Saint Candelora day, if it's snowing or raining, there'll be another forty days of winter.
One hair of a maiden's head pulls harder than ten yoke of oxen.
Nothing is so liberally given as advice.
Craftiness must have clothes, but truth loves to go naked.
The dog that means to bite don't bark.
What is loaned goes away smiling but returns weeping.
The still swine eat the mash. the wind ones run past it.
Tears cannot bring you joy but joy can bring you tears.
If a poor man gives to you, he expects more in return.
Some remedies are worse than the disease.
You don't satisfy your hunger by watching others work.
He who marries a beauty marries trouble.
Mirth is the sugar of life.
When fate strikes physicians are useless.
A scalded dog thinks cold water hot.
Anger punishes itself.
Beat your gong and sell your candles.
No matter how early one awakes, the sun does not rise first.
Doubt whom you will, but never doubt yourself.
Do not spur a free horse.
He who lacks knowledge derides his neighbor, but the man of understanding holds his tongue.
Better to ask than to go astray.
To ask a favor from a miser is like trying to make a hole in water.
If you have money, men think you are wise, handsome, and able to sing like a bird.
The cart is still there.
It is better to be kind to our neighbors than to cross the world to offer incense to our ancestors.
To love the law is to lose money.
A narrow place can contain a thousand friends.
The pubic hair of a woman mounting is stronger than two pairs of ox descending.
Consideration is the parent of wisdom.
The common soldier's blood makes the general great.
The devil's boots don't creak.
He who is only right hasn't really anything.
The spider and the fly can't make a deal.
He that would heal a wound must not handle it.
Worrying is like sitting in a rocking chair. It gives you something to do but it doesn't get you anywhere.
Like the chameleon, one eye on the future, one eye on the past.
People are like grass in the field: some blossom, some wither.
It is the passive resistance from the helm that steers the boat.
Cows have no business in horseplay.
It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
Spare at the brim, not at the bottom.
The death that will kill a man begins as an appetite.
Entreat him in jackass fashion; if he won't carry the sack, give him a whack.
A man without enemies is like a river without stones.
Men must sail while the wind serveth.
Don't trust the Greek bearing gifts.
Don't jump from the frying pan into the fire.
Better a healthy donkey than a consumptive philosopher.
Who starts something has to finish it.
No matter how big the sea may be, sometimes two ships meet.
When a fish rots, the head stinks first.
A cat may go to a monastery, but she still remains a cat.
The shoemaker goes barefoot.
The Italians cry, the Germans bawl, and the French sing.
Life is like shopping in a market; when you finish, you go home.
Beauty is the eye's food but the soul's sorrow.
Welcome an opportunity as it comes.
Don't do today what you can put off until tomorrow.
By being in front everywhere one may get a telling-off.
Make me a prophet and I will make you rich.
Pay the doctor, praise the lord.
Patience is often better than medicine.
The cornered rat will lick the balls of the cat.
Who does not share what he is given will not share what he has in his barn.
Better be a coward than foolhardy.
A client twixt his attorney and counselor is like a goose twixt two foxes.
When a poor man gets something he boasts of his new wealth.
Piety, prudence, wit, and civility, are the elements of true nobility.
Consideration should be shown to a novice.
Who is forced to go to church will not pray.
The mare's kick does not harm the colt.
Do not choose your wife at a dance, but in the field among the harvesters.
A village without the elderly is like a well without water.
It is easy to help him, who is willing to be helped.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be.
If the hunter comes back with mushrooms, don't ask him how his hunt was.
A danger escaped is no guarantee for the future.
Keep something for the sore foot.
Keep a thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
Too humble is half proud.
A wretched year has twenty-four months.
A stumble may prevent a fall.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
He is rich who knows when he has enough.
Better be alone nor in ill company.
You need a sharp axe for a tough bough.
Years and sins are always more than admitted.
He who would leap high must take a long run.
The voice of the people is the voice of God.
If a child shoots an arrow that reaches the top of a tall palm tree, then it must be that an elderly person carved the arrow for him.
A turtle can only get on it by sticking its neck out.
Nothing is more noble than politeness, and nothing more ridiculous than ceremony.
He who has not enough wit in the head, should force to replace it in the leg.
Better make a short circuit than to wet your hose.
A nice day, a gift for a street peddlar.
Gold lies deep in the mountain, dirt on the highway.
No matter how strong you are, you always find someone stronger.
You can't wake a person who is pretending to be asleep.
A guest should be blind in another man's house.
Everything is good as it is.
A camel never sees its own hump.
What can you do with a good cow that gives a lot of milk and then kicks the bucket over?
Long absence changes friends.
A klingon does not run away from his battles.
Where you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.
It's a good horse that never stumbles.
A sick person is not asked for porridje.
He got out of the mud and fell into the river.
Sokeing sale is best.
One should never rub bottoms with a porcupine.
He who conceals his disease cannot expect to be cured.
To keep one's tongue is worthy of praise.
All are not asleep who have their eyes shut.
The splendor of the rose of sharon is but a day.
He is an ill husband who is not missed.
If you would make an enemy, lend a man money, and ask for it back again.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
My old mare would have a new crupper.
Arrogance is not gentlemanly.
My son, too old is the earth don't make fun of it.
Man's schemes are inferior to those made by heaven.
Money is truthful. If a man speaks of his honor, make him pay cash.
Hate not the man, but the weakness.
Never put off today what you can put off tomorrow.
He who is free of faults, will never die.
A fox can change its fur, not its behavior.
All ways lead to the mill.
A man's heart and the autumnal sky.
Anger against a brother is felt in the flesh, not in the bone.
A vain belief, unprofitable.
The one who has helped others climb the ladder gets kicked in the teeth.
Wealth is like hair in the nose: it hurts to be separated whether from a little or from a lot.
The poor man commands respect; the beggar must always excite anger.
When you sweep the stairs, you start at the top.
The soup would be none the worse for more meat.
All's well that ends well.
We do not know what is good until we have lost it.
Don't buy a pig in a sackǃ.
It's no for nought that the gled whistles.
Be careful what you wish for, you might just get it.
Anger without power is folly.
The best horse doesn't always win the race.
Unwanted meddling in affairs could prove harmful.
Fire, water and government know nothing of mercy.
Many enter the wood without an axe.
You look for the horse you ride on.
A man may cause his own dog to bite him.
You don't throw rocks at a green mango.
Feather by feather the goose is plucked.
When the rain falls in the valley, the hill gets angry.
There's always a calm before a storm.
A bird in the hand's worth twa fleeing by.
Wine and women make fools of everybody.
The carrier of a secret message is not told its meaning.
He that is afraid of water, will not get into the boat.
The poor man has none to envy him.
You cannot stop planting cereals just because birds are going to feast on them.
When loves knocks, be sure to answer.
Wake not a sleeping cat.
You must pay the fiddler if you want to dance.
Using writings to form a community.
Party over, musicians by foot.
What comes this way, goes this way.
As the mistress, so the maid.
Anything good in life is either illegal, immoral or fattening.
Better to walk without knowing where than to sit doing nothing.
An orphan cuts his own umbilical cord.
Cursed cows have short horns.
Keeping silence won't get you to court.
A man warned is half saved.
He who does not lose his way by night will not lose his way by day.
The first hundred years are the hardest.
Justice is exercised in the proper prevention, rather than in the severe punishment, of crime.
The ancestors may annoy you but don't make a mistake of annoying them back, they may annoy you forever.
In a flat country a hillock thinks itself a mountain.
When in doubt, do nothing.
Ears have no covers.
All happy endings are beginnings as well.
An illiterate king is a crowned ass.
Even in the freshest of milk, you will still find hairs.
In the garden of time grows the flower of consolation.
Fry de bigh fish fust, te lilly one after.
Having health without wealth is being half sick.
Walls sink and dunghills rise.
The venemous snake cannot be seen in the Savannah.
Confession without contrition serves no purpose.
The house is our father's and the strangers came to kick us out.
He who has done evil, expects evil.
It is pleasant driving when there is no danger of upsetting.
No undertaking is difficult if pursued with perseverance.
Kindness will never be wasted in any way.
As soon as stones can swim, leaves will sink.
Misfortune does not always result in harm.
A house without a woman is the devil's own lodging.
Where wine appears the doctor disappears.
More tearful than an orphan.
They asked a bullfrog, "Why do you croak all the time?” He replied, "I'm enchanted with my voice.”.
He wha marries for love without money, has merry nights and surry days.
He who has approved of wrongdoing is as guilty as he who has committed it.
All earthly goods we have only on loan.
The ends justify the means.
Tis gold, Which makes the true man killed, and saves the thief; Nay, sometimes hangs both thief and true man; what Can it not do, and undo?
The more servants the worse service.
The sheik cannot fly, but his disciple lets him fly.
Everyone according to their talent and every talent according to its work.
An ape is ne'er so like an ape; As when he wears a doctor's cape.
People are equal like the teeth of a comb..
You can't get rice by pounding bran.
The tree does not fall at the first stroke.
The only good Indian is a dead Indian.
No wise man takes responsibility for an eighteen-year-old daughter.
I tell no, I don't you no but the habit in you prevails. AND the tail of the dog never straightens up even if you hang to it a brick.
Every one in his own house, and God in all men's.
The one whom the piglet is offered must keep the sack ready.
Dear is cheap, and cheap is dear.
One link broken, the whole chain is broken.
The best gold is supple.
Don't be ever in court or a castle without a woman to make your excuse.
Big fish devour the little ones.
Better a bad excuse, than none at all.
Past the precipice, past the fears.
Sorrow does not pay any debts.
There is no wave without wind.
Compliments cost nothing, yet many pay dear for them.
Life is not holding a good hand; Life is playing a poor hand well.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
The noise produced by frogs in the well can't stop an elephant from drinking.
Hunger never saw bad bread.
The eye should be blind in the home of another.
Who avoids small sins, does not fall into great ones.
Everyone wants to live long, but no one wants to be called old.
No sin is hidden to the soul.
Who wishes for a short Lent let him contract debts to be paid at Easter.
At court they sell a good deal of smoke without fire.
Blood will tell.
Better ride on an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.
Necessity knows no law.
There is never enmity between the cook and the butler.
Do good to people in order to enslave their hearts.
Crime does not pay.
You learn a lot about a man by his behavior when hungry.
Providence has not entirely deserted us.
Everyone's the blacksmith of their own fate...Mindenki a maga szerencséjének kovácsa.
When a tortoise embarks on a journey he doesn't ask for directions, because he does not want his enemies to know where he's going.
If you wish someone evil, give him a horse, and if you wish him more evil, give him two horses.
Flowers leave a part of their fragrance in the hands that bestow them.
The tail is always the most difficult part to skin.
A foreigner scratches you where you do not itch.
The frog wanted to be an ox and swelled up until he burst.
The hand of each saint inclines towards himself.
Don't judge every one by your own measure.
Laughter makes good blood.
If money be not thy servant, it will be thy master.
A store is no sore.
Some who mean only to warm, burn themselves.
Good watch prevents misfortune.
A sorrowfu' heart's aye dry.
The new moon of March rules for six months.
The crow flies sky high and lands on a pig.
Think before you do.
Cunning surpasses strength.
People give, but don't be in a hurry to take.
If your messenger is slow, go to meet him.
Who gets married will be happy for a day, who butchers a pig will be happy for a year.
First a daughter, then a son, and the family's well begun.
A greyhound finds food in its feet.
Zeal is like fire: it needs both feeding and watching.
It is dear honey that must be licked off thorns.
At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing.
You dont throw stones at an approching craclin noise in the bush wait and see what is it first.
It is the fate of the great ones of this earth, to be appreciated only after they are gone.
Ashes always fly back in the face of him who throws them.
To-day stately and brave, to-morrow in the grave.
The goose-pan is above the roast.
One doctor makes work for another.
Wide experience makes for deep tolerance.
The goose that has a good gander cackles loudly.
The bird flies high, but always returns to earth.
The servant wench that has a mother in town swoons seven times a day.
It is the law that judges, not the judge.
Whoever crossed the river at the fordable point, knows how deep the river is.
Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer.
Who bathes his hands in blood will have to wash them with tears.
The hardest step is over the threshold.
Courage cannot be bought at the inn.
The woman who always complains and is never satisfied with anything is like an annoying flea on the foot.
One never loses by doing a good turn.
Only take away the wife of a strong man when he is out.
To hang your sickle on another man's corn.
The rattan basket criticizes the palm leaf basket, still both are full of holes.
Truth comes back where she has once visited.
Nothing is so clean as a fish.
A Christian is more of a scoundrel than a rascal of a non-believer.
There are no better masters than poverty and wants.
More die by food than famine.
The dreaming man makes excuses for his inaction and places a fools cap on his head.
A clean pig makes lean bacon.
Who arrives at the mill first, grinds.
He that will have fire must bear with smoke.
The most noble dog can only bark.
Death fiddles and we dance.
A whistling girl and a cackling hen come to no good end.
Your most faithful friends are your own hands.
The tears of the roasting meat kindle the fire even more.
Your son can be a prince, your daughter will be a mother.
A lot of people become saints because of their stomach.
Everything must have a beginning.
An upstart is a sparrow eager to marry a hornbill.
A rabbit is over excited.
Lying is the first step to the gallows.
The lucky eagle kills a mouse that has eaten salt.
If you want to take revenge on a man, send him a really beautiful woman.
The young laugh when the old fall.
Better when birds sing than where irons ring.
The man, who eats alone, dies alone.
Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole.
Patience is the key to paradise.
When your wife is a woman of no morals, then she might as well be someone else's harlot.
The fish don't see the water.
Misfortune teaches us to pray.
(He/She) went looking for wool and came back shorn.
If you want a well, only dig in one place.
There are many fathers, but only one mother.
Revenge does not long remain unrevenged.
Fate and self-help share equally in shaping our destiny.
Conscience is only another name for truth.
Unmistakable lawyer.
The best part of a book is not the thought it contains but the thought it suggests.
One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in debt to those who are kind.
A man can't get rich if he takes proper care of his family.
It's a lonely washing that has no man's shirt in it.
Travelling is learning.
Trust was a good man; trust-not was a better.
Though the fox wear silk, he is still a fox.
The camel going to seek horns, lost his ears.
The gnat trusting itself to the flame is singed.
The hedge is trodden down where it seems to lean.
Neighbours bring comfort in adversity but only envy in success.
Envy sees the sea but not the rocks.
God speaks a foreign tongue.
Не that loses his honesty has nothing else to lose.
The best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm.
Authority is in generosity.
By joining the tail to the trunk one makes up the whole elephant.
The joke is the weapon of the witty; being serious is the shield of the stupid.
There exists no rule without exceptions.
Hawk will not pick out hawk's eyes.
English equivaleny: The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
I renounce the golden basin in which I have to spit blood.
The goose hisses, but does not bite.
To despise the ox means to despise also a strip of hide from it.
Choose thy love. Love thy choice.
When at a loss how to go on, cough.
Money taken, freedom forsaken.
Be in general virtuous, and you will be happy.
A little wind kindles, much puts out the fire.
Mad dogs get their skin torn.
When a soup is unpalatable, and the paste of the pounded yam that goes with it is not smooth, that is the time to know a man who loves to eat pounded yam.
He who is grown up should respect and love others.
A full purse cannot bend.
Possessions dwindle: I mourn their loss. But I mourn the loss of time much more, for anyone can save his purse, but none can win back lost time.
Night brings counsel.
Possession is eleven points of the law.
The law is good, but people are not.
A woman prefers poverty with love to wealth without love.
Follow a secure road even if it is winding.
Treat the earth well: it was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children.
When force and reason are in conflict, force of reason prevails and being reasonable isn't enough.
The cart ruins the road, the woman the man, the water the wine.
When there are no trees left, birds will perch on men's heads.
Bear with evil and expect good.
Think of many things - do one.
Family must look out for family.
A shoemaker's wife and a smith's mare are always the worst shod.
What is play to the cat is death to the mouse.
Undeserved praise is mockery disguised.
Small print leads to large risk.
Poor men sleep the best.
When the fields yield not, the saints have not.
Sickness comes uninvited--no need to bespeak it.
Never miss a good chance to shut up.
Want and necessity break faith and oaths.
Necessity teaches even the lame to dance.
It is easy to give advice when all goes well.
The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote.
If the rich could hire the poor to die for them, the poor would make a very nice living.
If you are going to have a roast, a chicken is better than a phoenix.
It is ill jesting with sharp tools.
Where shepherds are lots, sheep are lost.
When the sea is calm, every ship has a good captain.
To stumble is not to fall.
One who sits by the well will never go thirsty.
A man o' words, and no o' deeds, is like a garden fu' o' weeds.
Of soup and love, the first is the best.
Fallen blossoms do not return to branches; a broken mirror does not again reflect.
Examine what is said, not who is speaking.
Better spare to have of your own, than ask of other men.
One father can feed seven children, but seven children cannot feed one father.
It sticks to his fingers, like the charity-money to the matron.
To-day in finery, to-morrow in filth.
Only other people's eggs are double-yolked.
After ebb comes flood, and friends with good.
Early sow, early mow.
The shirt is nearer than the doublet.
He is a good storyteller who can turn a man's ears into eyes.
Money speaks sense in a language all nations understand. (Aphra Behn)
You can't jump from one tree to another but you can from one man to another.
The beer is difficult to strain.
A mirror doesn't know how to lie.
Eat coconuts while you have teeth.
Thousands of men were murdered because of their beautiful wives.
A man of words and not deeds, Is like a garden full of weeds.
The devil gives even rich men presents.
Where there are women and geese, there wants no noise.
Better no doctor at all than three.
One should set sails with the tide.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow.
The human heart is never satisfied, just like the snake that wants to swallow an elephant.
Wide will wear, but tight will tear.
A goshawk is an egg child, if sleeps hungry its his own fault.
A poor man is always behind.
The longer we live, the more farlies we see.
Nobody can see his own goodness: it can be seen only by others.
March makes one look through the door, and makes one burn hoes and shovels.
Go to the sea if you would fish well.
It is hard to hunt the hare out of the bush it is not in.
Neither blame or praise yourself.
Today's egg is better than tomorrow's hen.
That costs dear which is bought with begging.
For a poor man, to prepare for a trip means belt himself.
Friends and wine should be old.
Money has no ears but it hears; no legs but it walks.
Remember even if you loose all, keep your good name for if you loose that you are worthless.
The company makes the feast.
A beetle is a beauty in the eyes of his mother.
An object of pity even to a foe.
In other persons' eye one can see a mote, in one's own – cannot see a log.
Describe, usually with regret, something that has already happenned and is irreversible.
If it's drowning you're after, don't torment yourself with shallow water.
When the child is weaned, they say goodbye to the nurse.
A good backside will easily find a bench to sit on.
Between promising and performing a man may marry his daughter.
A friend is known in time of need.
Beauty's sister is vanity, and its daughter lust.
Paper is patient - you can put anything on it.
An old wound will not go away.
Better a slap from your friend than a kiss from your enemy.
All people have their friend and their enemy within themselves.
Don't sell the sun to buy a candle.
The difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits.
If left on one side it will burn.
Sorrow may sadden your face but it sharpens your understanding.
The bird, which flaps its wings too much, will drop its feathers.
Alexander the Great was not very tall.
If you sing before breakfast, you'll cry before night.
A warning to the wise is a blessing, to the fool an insult.
Who teaches another, acquires more knowledge.
Education begins a gentleman, conversation completes him.
Who builds on sand, the fall is near.
Virtue flourishes in misfortune.
It's easy to trust a cat once you put the cream out of reach.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse for breaking it.
Never speak of a rope in the family of one who has been hanged.
Let a child have its will, and it will not cry.
It is better to ride for half a year on a good horse than to spend your entire life riding on a mule.
It is not the burden but the over-burden that kills the beast.
Unstringing the bow does not cure the wound.
A quotation at the right moment is like bread to the hungry.
Before you build a house you have to dig a pit.
Being in the forest and failing to see trees is a curse.
The day is short and the work is long. (15th century)
Cautious in small matters, careless in great.
When the cat sleeps, the mice play.
Don't demand that what you write in the nile will be read in the desert.
Teeth placed in front of the tongue give good advice.
When a cat wants to eat her kittens, she says they look like mice.
Have no respect at table and in bed.
Take a big bite, don't say a big word.
The tongue speaks, but the head doesn't know.
To be for one day entirely at leisure is to be for one day an immortal.
Not every sort of wood is fit to make an arrow.
Far fowls have fair feathers.
Poverty is a sin that the rich never forgive.
He who is absent is always in the wrong.
Cooler than ice.
Don't use your teeth when you can untie the knot with your fingers.
In the ants' house the dew is a flood.
You can't grease a "pig" so many times that he can't be greased one more time.
It's no use boiling your cabbage twice.
Each time it is different.
All men have three ears, one on the left of his head, one on the right and one in his heart.
A fool is like all other men as long as he remains silent.
Pay beforehand if you would have your work poorly done.
Where rich people can make honest money, poor people have to steal.
If a man is as wise as a serpent, he can afford to be as harmless as a dove.
A good deed is the best form of prayer.
Dare to be wise. (Horace) (Motto of the University of New Brunswick)
Those who argue with each other on the highway will often make up in the lane.
There are no shortcuts to the top of the palm tree.
He that enquires all opinions, comes ill speed.
The haughty broad bean flowers and climbs but produces little fruit.
Taste is like the buttocks, divided.
He that spends more than he is worth spins a rope for his own neck.
All things good to know are difficult to learn.
You'll never plough a field by turning it over in your mind.
A greedy person and a pauper are practically one and the same.
Poor folks are glad of porridge.
What does a donkey know about the life of a nightingale?
I mistress and you miss, who is to sweep the house?
Pride is no substitute for a dinner.
As the tree is known by its fruit, so is the wicked man by his deeds.
The village feeds the town.
The naked don't fear robbery.
Go to a man who is in difficulty and you'll get a bargain.
A genius is he who is first to be right'.
If you talk to the blacksmith you'll get hit by sparks.
You need your wits about you the most when you are dealing with an idiot.
In the entire world, things are two and two.
Don't spoil a cool place under the hospitable tree.
Speedy exception is the mother of good fortune.
Put a stout heart to a stey brae.
An answer without a question signals guilt without question.
Words and deeds are not weighed in the same balance.
Women and glasses are always in danger.
Yesterday a cowherd, to-day a cavalier.
Reward not a sleeping pilot.
You are sure to marry a woman either beautiful or ugly.
Mary will foster a daughter like herself.
Never lose heart because whatever is hot must in the end turn cold.
He who stands by his point of view, must be ready to suffer hunger.
When a blade has dulled, sharpen another.
When we have gold we are in fear, when we have none we are in danger.
Of judgment every one has a stock on hand for sale.
Whoever is durable, the aged will not be durable.
The harvest of a whole year depends on what you sow in the springtime.
Ask for advice but do what you think is best.
The ox without a bell is soon lost.
The best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago; the next best time is now.
Watch out lest the canoe land on a rocky reef.
Who sows wheat with the devil will get its chaff.
Ebb does not follow ebb - flood is in between.
Who works hard alone will gobble alone.
Who has no head should have legs.
Look for cake, and lose your bread.
It is an ill thing to be deceived, but worse to deceive.
He who is born to misfortunate stumbles as he goes, and though he fall on his back will fracture his nose.
An ant may work its heart out, but it can't make money.
For the friendship of two, the patience of one is required.
Take off your hat quickly but slowly take hold of your purse.
Join those who can join sections of a canoe.
Base terms are bellows to a slackening fire.
Fools and the perverse fill the lawyers' purse.
'tis a good farthing that saves a penny.
Success is doing what you like and making a living at it.
Having little knowledge is like having your hands tied around your neck like a slave.
Birth is much, but breeding is more.
It is always term-Time in the Court of Conscience.
Tongue has two locks, lips and teeth.
He who is always in a hurry to get things done he never gets it done right.
Whoever keeps his door locked all the time longs for it to be broken down.
To truly love your wife, leave her alone every once in a while.
There is nothing lost by civility.
One scabbed sheep will mar a whole flock.
Nobody wants to meet an ill-omened bird.
He keeps silent, like a deaf pig in the wheat-field.
Either you sink or you swim.
The more intimate the friendship the deadlier the enmity.
Praise borrowed from ancestors is but very sorry praise.
She who keeps losing children doesn't invent names anymore.
The village slatternly wench has the form of a dove, the heart of a fox, and the mind of an toad.
It is better to carry stones with a wise man than accept the meal of a madman.
Love yourself; get outside yourself and take action.
As he thinks in his heart, so he is.
When the devil is old he turns hermit.
Whether you hit an owl with a stump, or a stump with an owl.
Sooner or later the day comes when the tumor can be lanced.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
However tall the mountain is, there's a road to the top of it.
He who never learns anything never forgets anything.
He can see the splinter in another's eye but cannot see even the beam in his own.
Plough your furrows deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep.
If you come up in this world, be sure not to go down in the next.
The gentle lamb sucks any ewe as well as its mother; the surly lamb sucks neither its own nor another.
He is not so much of a devil as he is black.
We are not yet roasting, and already we make sops in the pan.
Study from new books, but from old teachers.
When the wine is run out, you stop the leak.
He who has a son grown up should not call another a thief.
A little stream drives a great mill.
A handful of love is better than an oven full of bread.
There is no thing which does not cause another to exist.
A poor beggar is the one who begs without a bag.
The developments have led to the breaking if bread.
A smooth tongue is better than smooth locks.
No child was ever born without having been conceived.
He that cannot do better, must be a monk.
An old mule with a golden bridle.
You cannot name a child that is not born.
That my friend should be well is our wish, and that our enemies should be gone! May those friendly to you reach their goal as a ship does a friendly harbour! May your enemy, like the flood waters of a river, return to his city.
Who keeps company with a wolf will learn to howl.
If sorrow would not talk it would die.
He is riding the donkey, but has lost the donkey.
Substance is not enough, accident is also required.
One can't enter Paradise in spite of the saints.
It is ill to waken sleeping dogs.
Soft words butter no parsnips, but they won't harden the heart of the cabbage either.
The neighbour's lawn is green.
Talking is cheap until you hire a lawyer to do it for you.
A stick is a peacemaker.
Good clothes open all doors.
The descent to hell is easy.
If you make a fool to pray to God, he will hurt forehead.
There is nothing noble in being superior to some other man. The true nobility is in being superior to your previous self.
He that has no fools, knaves, or beggars in his family was begot by a flash of lightning.
Eat meat and fish and live longer.
Look at the strainer that tells the skimmer: You have three holes.
Poverty parts good company.
Women have long skirts and short minds.
A drowning man will clutch at straws.
Mere life is not a victory, mere death is not a defeat.
One swallow never made a summer.
If the hen had not cackled, we should not know she had laid an egg.
What reaches the top of the hill cannot be called back.
Everyone lays a burden on the willing horse.
Good to begin well, better to end well.
The person who has not traveled widely thinks his or her mother is the best cook.
Seek a wife in your own sphere.
All wooers are rich, and all captives poor.
A dreigh drink is better than a dreigh sermon.
A hunter has no mysterious notions about the forest.
Don't believe what you see, but only what I tell you.
It may be a fire today - tomorrow it will be ashes.
Time is the best preacher.
Let's be quiet, we'll get some fish.
Many a shot goes into the heather.
A disease known is half cured.
You cannot swallow hot milk, nor can you throw it away.
Quiet dogs and still water are dangerous.
The bachelors crave it, and the married ones regret it.
That which burns thee not, cool not.
When the cock craws the heart of a debtor skips a bit.
Nothing dries quicker than tears.
Friends are friends, business are business.
My skirt with tears is always wet: I have forgotten to forget.
He who ventures into the bush should close his ears to rattling.
Wrong laws make short governance.
Don't knock at a dead man's door and expect an answer.
Walk like you have 3000 ancestors walking behind you.
Today is the first day of the rest of your life.
With money you would not know yourself, without money nobody would know you.
Do not play with fire - you will burn yourself.
Once I had escaped the wild bull, the wild cow confronted me.
God puts a good root in the little pig's way.
Young men may die, but old men must die.
The busy fly is in every man's dish.
A woman like a goat, a woman of rushing visits.
A courtesy much entreated is half recompensed.
From our ancestors come our names, but from our virtues our honours.
Success isn't how far you got, but the distance you traveled from where you started.
The prickly pear has company only when it bears fruit.
Your failures could be stepping-stones to success.
Different men like different things.
A braying ass eats little hay.
Little leaks sink the ship.
Do not look for wrong and evil.
Silent worms dig holes in the walls.
Don't leave today's work for tomorrow.
An evil conscience breaks many a man's neck.
An ass let him be who brays at an ass.
One who says ‘it was too much for me' does not try.
We must have reasons for speech but we need none for silence.
Who accepts nothing has nothing to return.
If the rabbit is your enemy, admit that he can sprint fast.
A human being is quite impatient.
They attend a funeral robed in white, and a wedding in mourning.
If you go and take the field of an enemy, the enemy will come and take your field.
Your whole destiny is involved in the attitude you take toward your sin.
It is a bad idea to take a thorn out of someone else's foot and put it into your own.
The air is no less blue because the blind man doesn't see it.
Neither reprove nor flatter thy wife, where any one heareth or seeth it.
To silence another, first be silent yourself.
There's no bad weather, there are bad clothes.
Hell's roof is made from lost causes.
He who has a companion has a master.
He that hires one garden eats birds; he that hires more than one will be eaten by the birds.
Never rub your eye but with your elbow.
Every one likes justice in another's house, none in his own.
Kings have no friends.
Search for a friend with no faults and you will remain with no friends.
The house roof fights the rain, but he who is sheltered ignores it.
The art of doing business lies more in paying than in buying.
Ten thousand of the greatest faults in our neighbours is of less consequence than the smallest of our own.
Looks just like a devil ripped off the wall of the church of Raisio.
Gold may be bought too dear.
Crazy wheels run longest.
One who does not look ahead remains behind.
An open enemy is better than a false friend.
Ill fares the young bird in the urchin's hand.
Talk of the wolf and his tail appears.
Tell me and I'll forget. Show me, and I may not remember. Involve me, and I'll understand.
He who esteems none but himself is as happy as a king.
If skill could be gained by watching, every dog would become a butcher.
Abuse does not invalidate usefulness.
Such a beginning, such an end.
Despite your bark, you'll be eaten.
The eyes do not see what the mind does not want.
Moses does not play because he has not the means.
A woman is not a harmonica that you put aside when you have used it.
He needs a long spoon that would eat out of the same dish with the devil.
Try to reason about love, and you will lose your reason.
The way a house is decorated will tell much about its owner. Don't just take love -- experience it.
Set a knave to catch a knave.
A true friend, is one that will take a bullet for you in the war.
You must not tell all that you know, nor judge all that you see, if you would live in peace.
The honey fell into the sugar.
A worthy cause is worth pursuing to the end.
If the partridge had the woodcock's thing, it would be the best bird that ever fly. Speak without ifs and ands.
Better die ten years early than live ten years poor.
To every child his own neck ornament.
Every day a thread makes a skein in the year.
When throne into the sea the stone said, 'after all, this is also a home.'
If you buy cheap meat, when it boils you smell what you have saved.
The patient thief is as a tree whose root runs deep as he waits for the sweet fruit..
Much laughter, little brains.
If you are poor, though you dwell in the busy marketplace, no one will inquire about you; if you are rich, though you dwell in the heart of the mountains, you will have distant relatives.
She would drink the cream and say the cat she had was an old rogue.
A man does not run among thorns for no reason; either he is chasing a snake or a snake is chasing him.
Avoid the evil, and it will avoid thee.
A narrow neck keeps the bottle from being emptied in one swig.
Money in the purse dispels melancholy.
A favor to come is better than a hundred received.
One crow does not peck out another's eyes.
A chicken gets a gem.
Character is what you are in the dark.
Wealth is not his who makes it, but his who enjoys it.
Children and fools tell the truth.
Where the wolf gets one lamb he looks for another.
Who sits down is a cripple.
They asked the wolf: "Why is your neck thick?", and it said: "I do my job myself, that's why."
There is no loaded cart which could not carry one more forkful.
The flitch hangs never so high but a dog will look out for the bone.
When the head aches all the body is the worse.
Even a stupid one seems wise if he keeps his mouth shut.
Growl not at guests, nor drive them from the gate but show thyself gentle to the poor.
East West, home best.
Curses: like chaff, who throws them, catches them.
Taking a bite of the bread restores your appetite.
Good people, like clouds, receive only to give away.
He has the greatest blind side who thinks he has none.
What we keep silence about, does not exist.
Continual cheerfulness is a sign of wisdom.
Three things are not to be trusted; a cow's horn, a dog's tooth, and a horse's hoof.
The first attempt is the most difficult.
The old for want of ability, and the young for want of knowledge, let things be lost.
If the knitter is weary, the baby will have no new bonnet.
You are not a fully fledged sailor unless you have sailed under full sail, and you have not built a wall unless you have rounded a corner.
He who cannot dance will say, The drum is bad!
No one can blow and swallow at the same time.
Kings and Bears oft worries their Keepers.
There are many paths to the top of the mountain, but the view is always the same.
When the cock is euphoric, the brain is amnesic.
A prophet is not recognized in his own land.
If marriage were a good thing, it wouldn't need witnesses.
Calm seas make sorry sailors.
A woman and the wind change every moment.
Like saint like incense.
The pleasures of the mighty are the tears of the poor.
Don't draw another's bow, don't ride another's horse, don't mind another's business.
Who makes no promises, has none to perform.
He who stole (six coins) is hanged. He who stole (fifty coins) is praised.
Between true friends even water drunk together is sweet enough.
Between the hammer and the anvil.
A lazy woman is never virtuous.
Not being able to reach it with your hat.
Don't mention the cross to the devil.
Ya mout does run like a duck pouch.
One generation plants the trees; another gets the shade.
Burning the candle at both ends.
The eyes have one language everywhere.
The most manifest sign of wisdom is a continual cheerfulness.
The greater the fool, the greater his insolence.
With the hammer's blows the defects become known.
It is easy to dodge the arrow of an enemy, but difficult to avoid the spear of a friend.
Doctor's faults are covered with earth, and rich men's with money.
Seed well and harvest better.
The buyer has need of a hundred eyes, the seller of but one.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
The rich man has his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter.
Day will not break thanks to the cackling of the chicken.
One Mass now is worth a hundred after you're gone.
In one ear and out the other.
To a Vermonter, a Yankee is someone who eats apple pie for breakfast.
The most cunning are the first caught.
He gives him roast meat and beats him with the spit.
When the wind is in the east, 'tis neither good for man nor beast.
He is happy that knows not himself to be otherwise.
You may choose your friends; your family is thrust upon you.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
You cannot put a fire out with spit.
However hard a thing is thrown into the air, it always falls to the ground.
Maybe my canoe is bigger than yours, but the sea is the same. If there are no fish, we both go hungry.
Turn iron (or stone) into gold by the touch.
Love the one who loves you, answer the one who calls you.
Neither beg of him who has been a beggar, nor serve him who has been a servant.
Every rhinoceros is proud of its horn.
Clouds do not always mean rain, but smoke is a sure sign of fire.
Even the most beautiful morning cannot bring back the evening.
If we do a lot of practice we can do a good job.
It is ill done to chain a dragon for roasting your meat.
The misfortune of the foolish is a warning to the wise.
Do not meet troubles half-way.
Ill luck comes by pounds and goes away by ounces.
It is bad for puppies to play with bear-cubs.
It is not becoming to play the fox, or to play up on both sides.
You can close the city gates but not the mouths of men.
Don't open a shop unless you like to smile.
When there's fire, dry and wet burn together.
All are not princes who ride with the emperor.
Between two cowards, he has the advantage who first detects the other.
A man knows his companions in a long journey and a small inn.
Blood will out.
He who eats globefish soup is a fool; so is he who does not.
As you behave towards others, expect that others will behave to you.
After supper walk a mile.
Rather water from the brother than beer from a stranger.
Where's no top dogs, underdogs will be seen as one.
A deaf man may not have heard the thunder but he surely will see the rain.
Everyone blames his memory, but never his judgement.
A foolish bride gets no presents.
Remember, even monkeys fall out of trees.
Ugliness is the only guardian angel a woman has.
Never cheat a klingon... Unless your sure you can get away with it.
The man who flatters you is a liar: the greater the flattery, the bigger the liar.
When will the goat be strong enough to kill a leopard.
Kind master, give me hay for all of April.
Better to have a handful of might than a sack of justice.
Saints don't fill the belly.
Don't throw a stone into a well from which you have drunk.
Once out of the throat it spreads over the world.
The frog squashed the hardest croaks the louder.
Man cannot live by bread alone.
Gold does not buy everything.
What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Not to use trickery is also trickery.
The poor can't afford to buy cheap.
When wealth is lost, nothing is lost; when health is lost, something is lost; when character is lost, all is lost!
Build golden bridges for the flying foe.
Listening looks easy, but it's not that simple. Every head is a world.
Beard and cloak do not make one a philosopher.
When the threads unite, they can tie the lion.
Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald.
Dust does not rise because a dog-flea hops.
Behind every mountain lies a valley.
Solve one problem, and you keep a hundred others away.
One word spoken in anger may spoil an entire life.
Were the devil to come from hell to fight, there would forthwith be a frenchman to accept the challenge.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
Being but a woman, raise not the sword.
A divided man makes an unhappy spirit.
Don't go to the pub without money.
By asking for the impossible we obtain the possible.
To sin in secret is more pleasant than having pleasure in the open.
Your true enemy lives in your own house.
Though near be the stone to the ground, closer is the help of coivi.
A thousand regrets do not pay one debt.
A little thing in hand is worth more than a great thing in prospect.
War appears pleasant to those who have never experienced it.
No matter how beautiful the shoes are, they still have to go on the ground.
Where MacGregor sits at the head of the table.
Better to drink the weak tea of a friend than the sweet wine of an enemy.
God does not pay every Saturday.
The shield turned the wrong way.
A person is asked about his dress not what he has eaten.
Heaven and earth shall never meet.
Ill in kine and worse in beeves.
Find you without an excuse, and find a hare without a meuse.
Big words won't split ones mouth.
The best way to eat hot soup is little by little.
You may forget with whom you laughed, but you will never forget with whom you wept.
The house of envy lies in the lowest hollows, golden, sunless.
An onion shared with a friend tastes like roast lamb.
He sets the wolf to guard the sheep.
Many can help one.
They sowed the seed of an "if' but it didn't germinate.
A single finger cannot catch fleas.
You cannot make a crab walk straight.
One hand must wash the other, or both will be dirty.
The rat does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful.
If a man knew where he would fall, he would spread straw there first.
God sends nothing but what can be borne.
He fights with spirit as well as with the sword.
He who wants to sell his honor will always find a buyer.
He that forecasts all perils will never sail the sea.
Working in the fields is hard, but hunger is harder.
A fish should swim thrice: in water, in sauce, and in wine.
Mutual affection gives each his share.
Even if the wound is healed, the scar of it remains.
Wise men are never in a hurry.
The dying person cannot wait for the shroud to be woven.
Age and marriage tame the beast.
Martha sings well when she has had her fill.
Poverty is a sort of leprosy.
The child went with washing water.
A sack was never so full but that it would hold another grain.
Will heal before wedding.
Planting trees is as blessed an act as raising children.
A good book praises itself.
Marriage is the opposite to a fever attack; it begins very hot and ends very cold.
From education comes conduct.
Great look but bad breath.
Ever drunk, ever dry.
Never believe the impossible.
The poor man's corm always grows thin.
Man is a fish, woman a fisher, love is the hook and marriage is the frying pan.
Fortune is with you for an hour, and against you for ten.
When you go a fireside an' see food, eat half an' lef' half.
If you flatter the mother, you will embrace the daughter.
There is no disgrace in honest labour.
If you get lost in an icelandic forest, simply stand up and you will find your way.
Fall six times, stand up seven.
He that flatters you more than you desire either has deceived you or wishes to deceive.
You can't eat "almost." Even an ant can hurt an elephant.
All hat and no cattle.
If you fall in love let her be a beauty; if you should steal, let it be a camel.
What is in the yams that a knife doesn't know.
A Fair Bride is soon buskt, and a short Horse is soon wispt.
Do not judge by appearances; a rich heart may be under a poor coat.
Yourself first, others afterward.
The crab that walks too far falls into the pot.
The first drink makes you a frisky gazelle, the second an impetuous zebra, the third a roaring lion, and with the fourth you become a silly donkey.
The end makes all equal.
Words alone wont break bones.
The dead know the price of wood.
A woman like a horse needs spurs.
Every man I meet is in some way my superior; and in that I can learn of him.
Who has children cannot long remain poor; who has none cannot long remain rich.
As the ocimbamba seeks the low lying tree so friends gather to the friendly person.
It may take a lot of time to fabricate a lie but the truth only takes seconds to elevate.
Hunger finds no fault with moldy corn.
Bones snatched from the mouth of a hungry dog.
Bread is the staff of life, but beer's life itself.
To him who gives you a capon you may spare a leg and a wing.
Beauty's muck when honour's tint.
Temperance is the best medicine.
Like will to like, be they poor or rich.
Even after the accusation or rumour has been refuted, a suspicion nonetheless lingers.
We beat the sack and mean the miller.
Shame lasts longer than poverty.
Like a shadow in the morning, the friendship of the ignoble man is great at first, then gradually decreases and disappears. Like a shadow in the after noon, the friendship of the noble man is small at first, then gradually increases.
The day you are unlucky, even the cold food burns.
It is only the early risers who succeed in filling their baskets with white ants.
Simplicity is worse than thievery (crime).
God gives, but man must open his hand.
If the pitcher knocks against a stone, woe to the pitcher; and if the stone knocks against the pitcher, woe to the pitcher.
Writing is the mother of eloquence and the father of artists.
The stars shine brightest when the moon is gone.
When water trow weh i' cyaa pick up.
A golden cage does not feed the bird.
Do not trust even your own shirt.
A good word quenches more than a cauldron of water.
Bandage up your finger and take a walk in the village to see how many medical people you will meet.
He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever.
The counsel of the aged is sound.
While the mouse in the walls may look from afar at a cat, he does well not to go squeaking about it.
There are no national frontiers to learning.
A bully is always a coward.
What you sow, so shall you reap.
Pride went out on horseback, and returned on foot.
He that lets his fish escape, may cast his net often yet never catch it again.
The smallest pepper is hottest.
One who thinks that money can do everything is likely to do anything for money.
There is no royal road to learning.
There is no nail varnish that can make old hands look younger.
The presence of the doctor is the beginning of the cure.
God gives wings to the ant that she may perish the sooner.
Long fasting doesn't save bread.
He brought motion in a quiet life.
Behind every sweaty face of a cattle rustler is a story of determination and courage.
He who rides on a tiger can never get off.
Great things often come from small beginnings.
A man shows in his youth what he will be in his age.
Wild ducks and tomorrow both come without calling.
The greater the sinner, the greater the saint.
A wise man will not receive rebuke.
Where shall a man have a worse friend than he brings from home.
The cow engenders the man.
A healthy soul cannot live in a dry body.
Those who conceal their grief find no remedy for it.
A falcon will not breed a dove.
Every Jack has his Jill.
The restless grasshopper only finds rest in the gizzard of a bird.
There is no evil that comes without something good.
Rare is the person who can weigh the faults of another without putting his thumb on the scale.
Each draws water to his own mill.
The wise adapt themselves to circumstances, as water moulds itself to the pitcher.
Honour a good man that he may honour you, and a bad man that he may not dishonour you.
Whip the saddle and give the mule something to think about it.
Wise men change their minds, fools never.
Love this Earth as if you won't be here tomorrow show reverence for your Garden as if you will be here forever.
Every frog is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother.
Love has produced some heroes but even more idiots.
Three humble shoemakers brainstorming make a great statesman.
The empty wagon must make room for the full one.
Where God gives hard bread He also gives sharp teeth.
Where the bird was hatched it haunts.
Don't judge a dog by its hair.
The lion is known by his claws.
The person who has many faults is usually the first to criticize others. Put something off for one day, and ten days will pass.
You may find the worst enemy or best friend in yourself.
God save you from narrow doorways, a caning, stones thrown at the blind and the weighing of shop keepers.
Seven cities warred for Homer being dead, Who living had no roof to shrowd his head.
When you want to serve your friend, you can't worry about your belongings.
A donkey is a donkey though it may carry the Sultan's treasure.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
Don't stay long when the husband is not at home.
Enough is better than too much.
Those bosoms can be sold cheapest which are stolen ready-made.
The dragon teaches you that if you want to climb high you have to do it against the wind.
It is good gear that pleases the merchant.
Lost time is never found again.
Even an ant can hurt an elephant.
If Candlemas day be sunny and bright, winter will have another flight; if Candlemas day be cloudy with rain, winter is gone and won't come again.
Big voyage for a big ship.
Speak little and well, they will think you somebody.
To speak ill of anyone is to speak ill of yourself.
A brother may not be a friend.
The consequence is the reward of the cause.
Good days jump out of hands.
The best knowledge is to know yourself.
Life without endeavor is like entering a jewel-mine and coming out with empty hands.
Teeth will never quarrel with the tongue.
Every village has certain drawbacks to it.
Neck or nothing.
The less soup, the more spoons.
Passion and hatred are children of intoxicating beverages.
You cannot pull hard with a broken rope.
When the leopard has a broken paw, the antellope comes to collect an old debt.
On a fool's beard the barber learns to shave.
A coquettish woman is like a shadow -- as you chase her she runs away, and if you run away, she chases after you.
The mule was asked: The mule was asked: "Who is your father?" It responded with: "The horse is my uncle."
A fast horse does not want the spur.
Who is always prying into other men's affairs, leads a dangerous life.
"Where there is doubt, there is freedom." legal, meaning when in doubt the prisoner has to be freed.
If it weren't for the last minute, nothing would ever get done.
If men were now to turn their hostility towards the cat, it would not be long before the domestic cat becomes a wild animal.
Done in by his own trade like a water merchant in the rain.
One foe is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.
From the promise to the deed is a day's journey.
Who enters the Turkish bath will sweat.
No matter how tough the current of a river may be it is the calabash that triumphal over the river.
He who hasn't a penny sees bargains everywhere.
He is a bad shot who cannot find an excuse.
Kindness can pluck the whiskers of a lion.
The first bird get the first grain.
A crown's no cure for a headache.
The mouse that only trusts to one poor hole, Can never be a mouse of any soul.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
The dog's tail, even if buried for twelve years, will remain as crooked as ever.
He gets his passage for nothing and then winks at the captain's wife.
The worse it is, in one respect, the better, in another respect.
The road to success is lined with many tempting parking spaces.
See Naples and then die.
He who is intelligent is taught.
Lazy people have no spare time.
Nobody cares about you and nobody cares about me, so why not join together?
He who has the choice has the pain.
Labour warms, sloth harms.
We do not live to eat, but we eat to live.
The village cock does not crow in town.
There's no place like home.
In distress there is no law.
A snake that swallows his friend will have a tail sticking out of his mouth.
Who falls from height will suffer a hard blow.
A cold needs the cook as much as the doctor.
A friend in need is a friend in deed.
Where blood has been shed the tree of forgiveness cannot grow.
It is better to leave than to lack.
Keep the noises in the stomach.
The supreme law of the land is the Great Spirit's law, not man's law.
Rather be a slave to a rich man than the spouse of a poor man.
The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected.
We shall write it in soot in the chimney.
As the sands of the desert are to the weary traveler, so are words to he who loveth silence.
There's no use asking the cow to pour you a glass of milk.
It's a poor bird that fouls its own nest.
I hae a scottish tongue in my head – if they speak i'se answer.
Hit a stone with an egg.
Luck brings friends, need tries them.
Foreign places are nice enough, but home is sweeter.
What is inflated too much, will burst into fragments.
Don't shake the tree when the pears fall off themselves.
Doubt is the key to knowledge.
That which is written by God is what is.
Women always speak the truth, but not the whole truth.
The bleating of the lamb merely arouses the tiger.
The moon does not care if the dog barks at it.
Ignorance is sweet for the soul.
Necessity recognizes no law.
He who prays a lot is afraid of something.
An intelligent enemy is better than a stupid friend.
Do not rejoice over what has not yet happened.
Half bread is better than nothing.
A man who gets, a bitch who lets.
A dead cock never crows.
The owl does not praise the light, nor the wolf the dog.
Let there be no delay.
All's lost that's put in a riven dish.
The mule was asked: "who is your father?” it responded with: "the horse is my uncle.”.
Wealth can give legs to the cripple, beauty to the ugly, and sympathy to tears.
The later in the evening, the more beautiful the people.
Better to have bread and an onion with peace than stuffed fowl with strife.
Better walk on wooden legs, than be carried on a wooden bier.
He sits wi' sits on his neighbour's coat tail.
What's the use of consulting a dead man's horoscope?
Heaven above, earth below, and his own position firmly fixed.
There is a remedy for everything, could we but hit upon it.
When fowl drink water him lif' up him head and say 'Tank God" but man drink water and no say not'ing.
Every one finds fault with his own trade.
Even a hair casts its shadow.
Idleness is hunger's mother, and of theft it is bull brother.
Living near a lake doesn't mean you eat fish whenever you need.
All monkeys cannot hang on one branch.
You can't hold another fellow down in the ditch unless you stay down there with him.
Cleaning the house will not pay the rent.
The womb is not a boat, it cannot carry as much as a boat.
The awakening of a giant shakes the world.
Child's pig, father's pork.
Never challenge a fool to do wrong.
He who cannot doubt, is a stupid man.
The emperor is the father of his people, not a master to be served by slaves.
A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.
The way you got married is not the way you'll get divorced.
Do not lean on a worm-eaten staff.
As long as the mouse keeps still you can be sure that the cat stays on guard.
Experience is the teacher of jesters and the intelligence of the wise.
Envy can breed swans from bad duck eggs.
Care now, be cared for later.
Precepts teach, examples move.
Discretion is a way of hiding what you cannot help.
No man learneth but by pain or shame.
The second word makes the fray.
He who has a fever is not shown to the fire.
People pretend to dislike what they cannot get.
Once the manioca is in your stomach it's gone.
If every man would sweep before his own door, the city would soon be clean.
You can only take out of a bag what was already in it.
Let the bait hide the hook.
To-day's sorrow brings nought to-morrow.
We have no art. We do everything as well as we can.
There is a dialogue between deaf people.
Your tongue will get you to Kiev.
Save time!
Before you ask a man for clothes, look at the clothes that he is wearing.
If you're going to tell the truth, you better have one foot in the stirrup.
Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me.
An unwanted helper gets droppings as payment.
He that is at sea has not the wind in his hands.
The heart of fools proclaims foolishness.
Every day is a new beginning.
After one loss comes many.
Diligence is the vehicle on the paths of Mountains of Books; endurance is the vessel on the courses of the Seas of Learning.
When sheep get angry they are worse than wolves.
Who is always sad, does not even have fun when drunk.
A lion on me and an ostritch in war.
The more thou stir it the worse it will be.
Nobody notices when things go right.
When a man is stung, he doesn't destroy all beehives.
Never let what you don't know disturb your faith in what you do know.
It is observed that in any great endeavor, it is not enough for a person to depend solely on himself.
Love is like the moon: now full, now dark.
Maybe the last dog is catching the hare.
Great wealth is a gift from heaven; moderate wealth results from frugality.
Not wearing a high cap of someone.
In the hour of your greatest success are sown the seeds of your own destruction.
Not all porridge cooked is eaten.
Poor is the person who does not know when he has had enough. He who talks to a silent listener will soon stand naked.
The worse the passage the more welcome the port.
He would attend ther funeral of labour.
Bad is want which is born of plenty.
A cow from afar gives plenty of milk.
He made a pit and dug it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made.
A fool who knows Latin is never a real fool.
You hold an eel by the tail. [You are dealing with a slippery fellow.].
Greed lessens what is gathered.
Many trades spoil the master.
The lazybones must work twice.
In a battle between elephants, the ants get squashed.
Flowers in May and fruiting in June.
During the battle you cannot lend your sword to anyone.
A woman who loves to be at the window is like a bunch of grapes on the wayside.
When your luck deserts you, even cold food burns.
If you are rich, always shut your door.
Full stomach, hard rooster.
A pig never smells its own stink.
Where there are plenty of trees there are no builders.
Listen with kindness for a clear explanation.
If ye dinna see the bottom, dinna wade.
Patience provoked turns to fury.
What comes from the heart, goes to the heart.
Being overweight is being halfway sick.
A good surfer will not get wet. A bad one breaks his board.
Unworthy offspring brag the most about their worthy descendants.
Like a thunderstroke from a clear sky.
A man's best fortune or his worst is a wife.
He who knows not shame does whatever he likes.
It takes a wise man to learn from his mistakes, but an even wiser man to learn from others.
Shared sorrow is half sorrow.
No one is tall enough to reach up and touch the heavens. No one is broad enough to lift his gaze over the whole earth. [...] But you, who roar like a storm -- may you establish yourself like a lion. [...] No man can bring about your demise.
Some people may have reasons unknown to you for doing certain things.
A blind man will not thank you for a looking glass.
One lost, two found.
From little date seeds, great things are born.
Greatness is not achieved with violence.
A monkey remains a monkey, though dressed in silk.
De higher monkey climb de more him expose.
Threats don't kill.
Even buddhist priests of the same temple quarrel occasionally.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick.
As the meat, so its broth.
Grass grows not upon the highway.
Bygone troubles are a pleasure to talk about.
Better a lean agreement than a fat sentence.
Many a white collar covers a dirty neck.
Where ghosts walk, there is loving or thieving.
Men meet, only mountains do not.
No good dog barks without reason.
He that has but four and spends five, has no need of a purse.
It is better to finish something than begin.
Who is a man for one thing will be a man for another.
The hand that gives gathers.
When a woman has ten children, there is nothing that happens in the night that she does not know about.
Afraid of the enemies - don't be a border guard.
To lather an ass's head is only wasting soap.
Come and I'll tell you something, tickles the ear.
If the owner of the goat is not afraid to travel by night, the owner of a hyena certainly will not be.
He is not poor that hath not feel content.
Study invites study, idleness produces idleness.
He that has an ill name is half hanged.
Once the last tree is cut and the last river poisoned, you will find you cannot eat your money.
A brain is worth little without a tongue.
Money talks all the way to heaven's door.
A tree is not felled at one stroke.
Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade.
In fair weather prepare for foul.
The day you are leaving is not the time to start your preparations.
Credit lost is like a broken looking-glass.
When your devil was born, mine was going to school.
When something has been denied of you, you can still do it once.
It's better fast than later.
